Authors: ['Irene Iglesias Álvarez']
Date_Download: None
Date_Modify: None
Date_Publish: 2024-11-12 00:00:00
Description: Focus, innovation and investment are key to positioning VMware technology in customer sights, says Joe Baguley, Broadcom's chief technology officer for EMEA.
Filename: .json
Image_Url: https://www.networkworld.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/3603406-0-21181000-1731421645-20241105090509GC103784.jpg?quality=50&strip=all&w=1024
Language: en
Localpath: None
Source_Domain: None
Text: None
Title: Broadcom EMEA CTO: ‘When it comes to building private clouds, we are first’
Title_Page: None
Title_Rss: None
Url: None
Summary: On the stage, Joe Baguley, Broadcom’s chief technology officer for EMEA, directed the focus towards the launch of new advanced VCF services, ecosystem partnerships and the definition of modernization programs whose purpose is to accelerate the development of generative artificial intelligence (AI) applications, cybersecurity initiatives and adoption of the sovereign cloud. “When I joined VMware, we only had a hypervisor – referring to a single software [instance] that can be used to run multiple virtual machines on a physical one – we didn’t have storage or networking.” Baguley recalled attending an internal R&D event with other senior managers of the organization. For him, the journey to the present has been “very exciting.” But, Baguley insisted, the most exciting thing, and what still keeps him in his office chair, is “feeling that we are still capable of carrying out that vision that we once conceived in a bar in Monterey.” Corporate evolution Since those first steps, the organization has passed through several hands – including former parent company Dell EMC and equity stakeholder Silver Lake – until ending up with Broadcom, which finalized the acquisition of VMware in November 2023. “We are seeing how our approach is already happening through customers.” Championing private cloud Asked about his position in the global market compared to competitors, Baguley is proud of the latest VMware innovations highlighted at the event, particularly related to the VCF platform. There is no one who can offer you a profile as broad and complete as ours.” However, Baguley, aware of the high competitiveness of the industry in which they operate, maintained that “if you look back at the history of technology, there have always been failures, barriers, stories where people have been too arrogant … As a technologist I am always aware that we cannot sit back, we must continually think about how to be relevant, strategic.” In the reputational sphere, the acquisition of VMware by Broadcom marked a turning point in the company’s history.
Financial_Events: ['With the acquisition closed, the American multinational brought its VMware Explore 2024 event to Barcelona from Nov', 'For him, the journey to the present has been “very exciting.” But, Baguley insisted, the most exciting thing, and what still keeps him in his office chair, is “feeling that we are still capable of carrying out that vision that we once conceived in a bar in Monterey.”\nCorporate evolution\nSince those first steps, the organization has passed through several hands – including former parent company Dell EMC and equity stakeholder Silver Lake – until ending up with Broadcom, which finalized the acquisition of VMware in November 2023', '“We have evolved, we have refined those appendages that were not perfect.”\nSince the acquisition of VMware by Broadcom, the organization has integrated the business units that previously advanced in isolation', 'There is no one who can offer you a profile as broad and complete as ours.” However, Baguley, aware of the high competitiveness of the industry in which they operate, maintained that “if you look back at the history of technology, there have always been failures, barriers, stories where people have been too arrogant … As a technologist I am always aware that we cannot sit back, we must continually think about how to be relevant, strategic.”\nIn the reputational sphere, the acquisition of VMware by Broadcom marked a turning point in the company’s history']
