{
    "authors": [
        "Caroline Reid"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 16:53:06",
    "description": "The streaming landscape has become so crowded with content that the season-ender of a strong show is no longer guaranteed to get widely reported and watched.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://imageio.forbes.com/specials-images/imageserve/674d18189cc127f1a416354a/0x0.jpg?format=jpg&crop=2307,1468,x0,y0,safe&height=900&width=1600&fit=bounds",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "The streaming landscape has become so crowded with content that the season-ender of a strong show is no longer guaranteed to get widely reported and watched. Finales now need to be crammed with cameos, climactic events and of course a cliffhanger. One show packed even more of a punch last month and it paid off.\nOn paper Cobra Kai didn't sound like it had the hallmarks of being a classic. The show began life in 2018 as a YouTube Premium original series and picked up the storyline from the 1980s Karate Kid series of classic action films.\nIn an era when action flicks were two-a-penny, the most successful movies in this genre needed an angle to stand out and Karate Kid's selling point was its unlikely hero \u2013 weakly teenager Daniel LaRusso, played by Ralph Macchio, who reluctantly takes up karate to defend himself against school bullies. A far cry from muscle-bound stars like Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger, Macchio's modest physique made the movie more believable whilst gravitas came from the late Hollywood veteran Pat Morita who played a karate master mentoring the young boy.\nIts poignant premise and authentic acting made it an unexpected hit and it grossed $91.1 million making it the fifth highest-earning movie of 1984 behind titans like Gremlins and Ghostbusters as well as Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom \u2013 the second instalment to an already-iconic film franchise.\nThe Karate Kid spawned three sequels, as well as a 2010 reboot starring Jackie Chan, but over time its appeal waned. The series became famous for being a relic of the eighties thanks to its rock anthems, gaudy clothing and karate falling out of fashion.\nIt set a high barrier for making a contemporary show based on the films but instead of trying to bring the format up to date, the YouTube series embraced the original's ethos. Macchio's movie nemesis William Zabka returned, now playing a middle-aged down on his luck dad who is firmly stuck in the eighties. Lacking even basic tech skills, when he loses his job he turns to what he knows best and opens the Cobra Kai studio to teach the darker side of karate to outcasts. Daniel responds by launching the Miyagi-Do studio, named after his former master Mr Miyagi.\nIt sets the scene for rivalries and scuffles between the two camps and rather than treating the subject with seriousness, like the original movie, Cobra Kai is a tongue-in-cheek comedy well aware that its cheesy premise is outdated. This appealed to fans of the original movies and made the show accessible to a new audience which explains why its first season has a perfect critics score of 100% on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes.\nAfter its second season, it moved to Netflix where it exploded in popularity. Building on the show's foundations of comedic action and adventure it drove up the tension by making the rivalries increasingly fierce. Cameos of characters from the original movies kept die-hard fans engrossed and critics lapped it up with its Rotten Tomatoes score not dipping below 90% across five seasons. Then came season six.\nThe sixth and supposedly final season has been split into three parts with the first launching in July and the second last month. The third and final part drops in February 2025 and the stage has been set for it perfectly. By season six, the bosses of the two rival karate studios began collaborating with each other and dealing with the return of Terry Silver, a villain first introduced in 1989's The Karate Kid Part III. The cameos didn't stop there.\nThe final episode revealed that Mr. Miyagi killed an opponent in a match during his heyday. The bombshell was revealed in a nightmare with Morita reprising his role as Mr. Miyagi from beyond the grave thanks to an eerily-lifelike deepfake powered by AI. It was a dream ticket.\nSo far, the sixth season is the first to dip below 90% on Rotten Tomatoes with critics awarding it 85% and the consensus being that it \"doesn't hit as hard but still maintains excellent form.\" Its media exposure hits an even higher note.\nThanks to unexpected appearances as well as a dramatic finale to the second instalment featuring the death of one of the Cobra Kai students, the sixth season has delivered knockout media coverage.\nWhen the latest top ten most-watched English-language shows on Netflix worldwide are ranked by the number of articles mentioning them so far this year, Cobra Kai comes out on top. It has been mentioned in 3,787 articles, just ahead of 3,157 for videogame adaptation Arcane, which is wildly-popular as we have reported.\nThe Netflix top ten ranks shows by the number of views which puts Cobra Kai in third with the top spot occupied by Ted Danson comedy, A Man on the Inside. However, that show has failed to become a cultural phenomenon like Cobra Kai and ranks in eighth place with just 696 mentions in the media so far this year.\nThe data comes from Factiva, a media search engine owned by Dow Jones which includes content from 33,000 news, data and information sources in 32 languages from 200 countries. Factiva's archive is constantly updated and contains more than two billion articles with the oldest dating back to 1944. It shows that Cobra Kai's exposure first peaked in July with 808 articles about the first instalment of season six. That then rose to 867 last month when the second part dropped.\nThere is a lot riding on the shoulders of the third instalment in February. Although a seventh season isn't in the works, the Karate Kid story won't stop there. Two months after the curtain comes down on Cobra Kai, Karate Kid Legends will debut in theaters. Set after Cobra Kai, it will star both Macchio and Chan tying together a franchise which began 41 years earlier. A punchy profile in the media could be just what it takes for the movie to make an impact.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Netflix Top Ten Show Has An AI Star To Thank For Its Popularity",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}