{
    "authors": [
        "Joseph Green"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-11-08 12:21:51",
    "description": "Unblock and watch U.S. Netflix from anywhere in the world with a streaming-friendly VPN.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://helios-i.mashable.com/imagery/roundups/04qgd80xTaW4kYEBpwViXd7/hero-image.fill.size_1200x675.v1667382762.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Collecting all your favourite snacks and drinks, surrounding yourself with comfortable cushions and blankets, and then spending hours in front of a screen can be a truly therapeutic experience. Unfortunately, there is one big problem with this hobby: There is a limited amount of content out there to keep you entertained.\nWe're a greedy bunch, and regular streamers can easily get to a point where it feels like there's nothing left to watch. What are you supposed to do then? Don't panic, because there is a simple solution to this frustrating issue.\nIf you've reached this point of streaming shortage, you should consider investing in a VPN. It will likely unlock a lot of shows and movies on services to which you're already subscribed.\nWhat is a VPN?\nVPNs are security tools that provide protection for your information by creating a private network that hides your real IP address (digital location). All of your activity is untraceable and secure, because all of your online traffic passes through an encrypted tunnel. Nobody can see into the tunnel, and everything inside the tunnel is protected against online threats like hackers, viruses, and malware.\nThe act of hiding your real IP address is what can trick leading streaming sites into thinking you are based in another country.\nDo you need a VPN?\nVPNs are used to provide protection for your sensitive information, which is obviously super important. This isn't the only reason VPNs are so popular though, because these tools can be also be used to watch content that is normally blocked in your location.\nBy hiding your real IP address and connecting you to a server in another country, you can watch all your favourite content from that location. For example, you could watch all the extra films and shows on American Netflix that are not usually accessible outside of the U.S. There is so much content out there that can be accessed with the help of a VPN.\nEveryone is in need of something that can bypass geo-restrictions to access all of this blocked entertainment, and that something is a VPN. These services are keys to the online world, granting you access to more of the shows and films you love.\nHow to unblock U.S. Netflix\nIf you think accessing American Netflix is going to be difficult with a VPN, think again. It's actually a really simple process that absolutely everyone can understand:\nSign up to a streaming-friendly VPN (like ExpressVPN)\nDownload the app to your device of choice (the best VPNs have apps for Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Linux, and more)\nOpen up the app and connect to a server in the U.S.\nVisit Netflix to watch movies and shows from the U.S. content library\nIf you're worried that this whole thing sounds a bit illegal, then maybe we can reassure you. It's currently legal to watch Netflix while using a VPN, although we should point out that Netflix states in its terms of service that it may restrict your account without compensation or notice if you are engaged in \"improper\" use. We're not entirely sure what that means, but consider yourself warned.\nWe should make it very clear that you still need to be subscribed to Netflix for this trick to work. A VPN is not going to grant access to the streaming site for free. A VPN provides access to more libraries from around the world, once you're subscribed.\nShould you use free VPNs?\nThere are plenty of free versions and free trials of VPNs, so why would you ever consider paying for a service? As with most things in life, you get what you pay for with VPNs.\nThere is always a catch with free versions, and it's normally in the form of limited data usage. These plans will be just fine if you're just an occasional user, but if you're going to be streaming or downloading anything, this isn't going to work. Free trials are different as come with everything you get in a paid plan, but obviously they don't tend to last very long. Trials are great for testing out a service before committing, but this isn't a long-term solution.\nTo gain access to advanced security features without limitations on usage, you generally need to pay up. That being said, services like ProtonVPN offer an impressive set of features for free. However, you might have trouble streaming Netflix with this free version.\nWhat is the best VPN for Netflix?\nThere are a lot of VPN services out there that can effectively unblock American Netflix, but which is the best? There are plenty of strong options for you to consider, but we wouldn't want you wasting your time checking everything out. To save you time, we've handpicked your best options. Each service has a different set of features that will suit some users better than others, and it's all about finding something that works for you.\nExpressVPN is at the top of this list because it combines essential features with impressive results, but it isn\u2019t the only option available to you. We have lined up all the best VPNs for unblocking Netflix, with something for everyone on this list. We've highlighted the best deals on the likes of Surfshark, PureVPN, CyberGhost VPN, and NordVPN.\nThese are the best VPNs for Netflix in 2024.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "How to unblock and watch U.S. Netflix",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}