{
    "authors": [
        "Bella Avila"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-11-12 08:00:00",
    "description": "You can buy Nvidia stock through an online brokerage account. You'll need to add money to the account and then search for Nvidia stock within the brokerage's platform.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://www.nerdwallet.com/assets/blog/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/GettyImages-1279395368-e1701988932441-1440x864.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Disclaimer: NerdWallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. This information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product's site. All financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. When evaluating offers, please review the financial institution's Terms and Conditions. Pre-qualified offers are not binding. If you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact TransUnion\u00ae directly.\nNerdUp by NerdWallet credit card: NerdWallet is not a bank. Bank services provided by Evolve Bank & Trust, member FDIC. The NerdUp by NerdWallet Credit Card is issued by Evolve Bank & Trust pursuant to a license from MasterCard International Inc.\nImpact on your credit may vary, as credit scores are independently determined by credit bureaus based on a number of factors including the financial decisions you make with other financial services organizations.\nNerdWallet has an engagement with Atomic Invest, LLC (\u201cAtomic Invest\u201d), an SEC-registered investment adviser, to bring you the opportunity to open an investment advisory account (\u201cAtomic Treasury account\u201d). Investment advisory services are provided by Atomic Invest. Companies which are engaged by Atomic Invest receive compensation of 0% to 0.85% annualized, payable monthly, based upon assets under management for each referred client who establishes an account with Atomic Invest (i.e., exact payment will differ). Atomic Invest also shares a percentage of compensation received from margin interest and free cash interest earned by customers with NerdWallet. NerdWallet is not a client of Atomic Invest, but our engagement with Atomic invest gives us an incentive to refer you to Atomic Invest instead of another investment adviser. This conflict of interest affects our ability to provide you with unbiased, objective information about the services of Atomic Invest. This could mean that the services of another investment adviser with whom we are not engaged could be more appropriate for you than Atomic Invest. Advisory services through Atomic Invest are designed to assist clients in achieving a favorable outcome in their investment portfolio. They are not intended to provide tax advice or financial planning with respect to every aspect of a client\u2019s financial situation and do not include investments that clients may hold outside of Atomic Invest. For more details about Atomic Invest, please see the Form CRS, Form ADV Part 2A, the Privacy Policy, and other disclosures.\nBrokerage services for Atomic Invest are provided by Atomic Brokerage LLC, a registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA and SIPC and an affiliate of Atomic Invest. Due to the relationship between Atomic Brokerage and Atomic Invest, there is a conflict of interest due to Atomic Invest directing orders to Atomic Brokerage. For additional information regarding conflicts, please see Items 5, 12 and 14 of Atomic Invest's Form ADV Part 2A. For more details about Atomic Brokerage, please see the Form CRS, the Atomic Brokerage General Disclosures, and the Privacy Policy. Check the background of Atomic Brokerage on FINRA's BrokerCheck. Fees such as regulatory fees, transaction fees, fund expenses, brokerage commissions and services fees may apply to your brokerage account.\nNeither Atomic Invest nor Atomic Brokerage, nor any of their affiliates is a bank. Investments in securities are Not FDIC insured, Not Bank Guaranteed, and May Lose Value. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Before investing, consider your investment objectives and the fees and expenses charged. Custodial and clearing services used by Atomic Brokerage can be found on its BrokerCheck report. Technology services may be provided by AtomicVest, Inc.\nNerdWallet\u2122 | 55 Hawthorne St. - 10th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "How to Buy Nvidia Stock (NVDA)",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}