Authors: ['Jason Bailey', 'www.nytimes.com', 'jason-bailey']
Date_Download: None
Date_Modify: None
Date_Publish: 2024-12-02 19:05:45
Description: A bunch of movies and TV shows are leaving for U.S. subscribers by the end of December. Here’s a roundup of the best.
Filename: .json
Image_Url: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2024/12/02/multimedia/02netflix-expiring-qpjg/02netflix-expiring-qpjg-facebookJumbo.jpg
Language: en
Localpath: None
Source_Domain: None
Text: None
Title: Stream These Movies and Shows Before They Leave Netflix in December
Title_Page: None
Title_Rss: None
Url: None
Summary: Two excellent independent dramas leave Netflix in the United States early this month, so get on them while you can; other present-wrapping background possibilities include a Liam Neeson action flick, two animated comedies and an easy-breezy comedy-drama about the rich and the doctor who serves them. Morgan Saylor, best known at the time this movie was released, in 2016, for her work as an all-American teen daughter on “Homeland,” raised some eyebrows when this sexually frank and pharmaceutically candid indie drama debuted. But this is no lazy exercise in shock value; the writer-director Elizabeth Wood based her script on her own rocky youth and treats her protagonist with an expected, but still refreshing, nonjudgmental sympathy. This 2018 action drama was an early entry in a seemingly endless line of late-period action vehicles for Liam Neeson, the Oscar-nominated star of “Schindler’s List.” Here, he plays Michael MacCauley, an ex-cop who just lost his job as a life insurance salesman; on the commuter train home, he is drawn into a complicated scheme involving contract killers, dirty federal agents and the would-be witness they’re supposed to protect. Jaume Collet-Serra directed several of Neeson’s action pictures before this one, and he had already figured out how to play to his strengths, even if this one is essentially a relocated remake of their earlier film “nonstop.” And Collet-Serra handles the big set pieces with flair, particularly a long fight scene between Neeson and a hit man, in which the two men demolish each other and their train car using their fists, glass and, at one point, an electric guitar.
Financial_Events: []
