Authors: ['Tanya Melendez', 'www.facebook.com']
Date_Download: None
Date_Modify: None
Date_Publish: 2024-04-06 10:00:00
Description: From award-winning comedy series like ‘Insecure’ to original programming like ’Peaky Blinders,’ here are the 25 best shows on Netflix right now.
Filename: .json
Image_Url: https://ew.com/thmb/V0nTVy-DaIItRw_MsSouE778h8A=/1500x0/filters:no_upscale():max_bytes(150000):strip_icc()/netflix-what-to-watch-peaky-blinders-documentary-now-insecure-312c2c2ac792464581c3e488d287fb55.jpg
Language: en
Localpath: None
Source_Domain: None
Text: None
Title: The 25 best shows to watch on Netflix right now
Title_Page: None
Title_Rss: None
Url: None
Summary: Keri Russell, allowed to be slightly lighthearted for once, plays Kate Wyler, the new and reluctant U.S. ambassador to the U.K. Everything would be fine if not for her on-again, off-again Machiavellian spouse (a rakish Rufus Sewell) who loves to scheme in her best interest, a staff who keep trying to put her in designer dresses, a too-hot guy who works for British intelligence (David Gyasi), and an international incident that could lead to World War III. Where to watch Friday Night Lights: Netflix Cast: Kyle Chandler, Connie Britton, Zach Gilford, Minka Kelly, Adrianne Palicki, Taylor Kitsch, Jesse Plemons, Jurnee Smollett, Matt Lauria, Michael B. Jordan 13 of 25 The Gentlemen (2024–present) Guy Ritchie created this action series as a spin-off of his 2019 movie, but it works just fine on its own. Where to watch Never Have I Ever: Netflix EW grade: A– (read the review) Cast: Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, Poorna Jagannathan, Ramona Young, Lee Rodriguez, Jaren Lewison, Darren Barnet, John McEnroe 19 of 25 One Day (2024) It’s a tale as old as time: A working-class girl meets an upper-crust boy, there’s a will-they-or-won’t-they tension, and they reunite once a year for two decades. Where to watch Six Feet Under: Netflix EW grade: B+ (read the review) Cast: Peter Krause, Michael C. Hall, Frances Conroy, Lauren Ambrose, Freddy Rodriguez, Mathew St. Patrick, Jeremy Sisto, Rachel Griffiths, James Cromwell, Justina Machado 23 of 25 Stateless (2020) This intense Australian limited series highlights the troubled history of the country’s many detention centers for undocumented immigrants. Created by Cate Blanchett, who plays a small role as a conniving self-help con artist, we follow four stories: Sofie (Yvonne Strahovski), who ended up in detention while trying to escape a cult; Ameer (Fayssal Bazzi), a single-father refugee who flees Afghanistan; Clare (Asher Keddie), an administrator in over her head; and Cam (Jai Courtney), a new officer who’s only in it for the solid paycheck.
Financial_Events: ['Start with this Emmy-nominated comedy-drama about two best friends: Issa (Issa Rae), the unfocused non-profit worker stuck in a stale relationship who raps encouragement to herself in the mirror, and Molly (Yvonne Orji), the driven lawyer with sky-high dating standards.\nDeftly balancing the ridiculous (every instance of Issa’s white boss at the non-profit We Got Y’all) with the authentic (Issa and Molly’s rocky friendship, which dominates a stellar season 4), Insecure is about growing up when you’re already grown.\nWhere to watch Insecure: Netflix\nCast: Issa Rae, Yvonne Orji, Lisa Joyce, Natasha Rothwell, Jay Ellis\n18 of 25\nNever Have I Ever (2020–2023)\nJohn McEnroe’s brattiest days are far behind him, but he’s still the perfect narrator for how 15-year-old Devi Vishwakumar (newcomer Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) feels when her father suddenly dies while watching her band recital']
