{
    "authors": [
        "Maleha Afzal"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 13:32:22",
    "description": "We recently published a list of 10 Best Stocks to Buy For Long Term Growth. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Broadcom Inc.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://d2gr5kl7dt2z3t.cloudfront.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/20101315/AVGO-insidermonkey-1695219193323.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "We recently published a list of 10 Best Stocks to Buy For Long Term Growth. In this article, we are going to take a look at where Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) stands against other best stocks to buy for long term growth.\nStrategist Expects S&P 500 to reach 6,600\nSome investors consider 2024 as a transition year, while others debate that this year was just the beginning of the level of volatility awaiting financial markets in 2025. It is not an exaggeration to say that 2024 has been rough for markets given that crucial events like the commencement of an easing cycle followed by the US elections remained a major influence on the overall environment. Amid all these awaited events, the tech sector has not been an investor favorite, however, that may change sooner than we think.\nOn November 26, Venu Krishna, head of US equity strategy at Barclays, joined Yahoo Finance to share his opinion on the stock market, particularly the tech sector. Krishna raised his S&P 500 price target for 2025 to 6,600 and shed light on why he believes such is possible.\nHe shared that the economy is pretty constructive from a macro perspective given that the virtuous cycle between income and employment remains solid. He added that consumer balances are going up and believes that the overall economic conditions of the country have been positive. All these reasons combined explain the price target of 6,600 for the S&P 500.\nSpeaking of the technology sector, Krishna agreed that the \u201cmarket is, on a consistent basis, underestimating the earnings power of tech, especially big tech.\u201d He added that at the same time, the market is also overestimating the earnings power of the other non-tech names in the S&P 500. He shared that the market expected Big Tech to post earnings up by 19% year-over-year and have \u201cflat revisions\u201d in the third quarter. Non-tech stocks on the other hand were marked down by 2%.\nHowever, Krishna revealed that as the earnings period of Q3 2024 comes to a close, Big Tech actually delivered 31% of earnings growth during the quarter. He added that non-tech stocks have moved in the same direction but only incrementally. He explained that, for example, non-tech stocks were originally marked down, but instead, they expanded by 2%, accelerating at a very slow pace.\nHe also emphasized that the rate at which the market expects Big Tech earnings to slow down is in reality much lower than the actual deceleration rate. Overall, Krishna expects the market to converge but highlighted that it may not be as close as we expect it to be, probably not sooner than Q1 2026.\nWhile turmoil and uncertainty remain a key element in the market, some stocks are revolutionary enough that they are bound to offer great opportunities in the coming years, if not now.\nOur Methodology\nTo come up with the best stocks to buy for long term growth we sifted through multiple rankings on the internet. We then examined the hedge fund sentiment of each stock and ranked them in ascending order of the hedge fund sentiment as of Q3 2024.\nWhy are we interested in the stocks that hedge funds pile into? The reason is simple: our research has shown that we can outperform the market by imitating the top stock picks of the best hedge funds. Our quarterly newsletter\u2019s strategy selects 14 small-cap and large-cap stocks every quarter and has returned 275% since May 2014, beating its benchmark by 150 percentage points (see more details here).\nBroadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO)\nNumber of Hedge Fund Holders: 128\nBroadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) designs and develops a range of semiconductor products and is well known for making application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). It also provides infrastructure software products. Some of its products include cable modems, networking processors, and storage adapters. The company serves the data center, networking, software, broadband, storage, and wireless markets.\n2024 has been incredible for AVGO. Earlier this year, the company launched breakthrough technologies able to manage AI tasks and scalable AI systems. On November 5th, the company unveiled VeloRAIN, a platform that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to improve the performance of AI security workloads. On the same day, the company launched a private cloud platform under its VMware Cloud Foundation to improve customers\u2019 AI autonomy and security.\nThe company also forged prominent partnerships throughout the year. To align with its strategic trajectory, on November 5, the company expanded its partnership with Telia to revolutionize Telco and Cloud infrastructure. Overall, Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) expects revenue from AI to grow by 10% sequentially to $3.5 billion, bringing the full-year total to $12 billion, driven by ethernet networking and custom accelerators for AI data centers in Q4 2024.\nBroadcom Inc.\u2019s (NASDAQ:AVGO) emphasis on introducing groundbreaking technologies is immense and is also its economic moat. At the moment, company officials believe AVGO is finally achieving stability on a company-wide level and is on track to becoming a technology powerhouse.\nClearBridge Investments\u2019 ClearBridge Large Cap Value Strategy stated the following regarding Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) in its Q3 2024 investor letter:\n\u201cIn IT, we bought Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) as we believe the company has a long runway for growth with its custom silicon business, which should be more durable and less volatile than other components within the AI food chain. We also believe the acquisition of VMware creates another opportunity for steady, subscription-based durable growth that is still in its early innings. We believe the stock has an attractive risk/reward profile given the reasonable visibility toward mid-teens EPS growth at a low-20s P/E multiple. We made room for Broadcom by exiting Lam Research, whose shares we believed priced in a full recovery, while we grew increasingly concerned that China exposure might create an air pocket.\u201d\nOverall, AVGO ranks 8th on our list of best stocks to buy for long term growth. While we acknowledge the potential of AVGO to grow, our conviction lies in the belief that certain AI stocks hold greater promise for delivering higher returns, and doing so within a shorter time frame. If you are looking for an AI stock that is more promising than AVGO but that trades at less than 5 times its earnings, check out our report about the cheapest AI stock.\nREAD NEXT: 8 Best Wide Moat Stocks to Buy Now and 30 Most Important AI Stocks According to BlackRock",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Why Broadcom Inc. (AVGO) Is the Best Stock to Buy For Long Term Growth?",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}