{
    "authors": [
        "Liam Proven"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-11-14 15:33:09",
    "description": "And yes, that does include commercial use in production",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://regmedia.co.uk/2024/11/14/leonardo_ai_virtual_pcs.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Broadcom has made its desktop hypervisors freeware \u2013 even for production use. Not open source, but free stuff is still good, right?\nBroadcom's announcement may be bad news for Oracle\u2019s VirtualBox desktop hypervisor, but we doubt that Big Red will lose much sleep over it. For everyone else out there that wants to run VMs on their desktop or laptop, it's good news.\nThe giveaway follows Broadcom's decision back in May to make the apps free for personal, non-commercial use. Back then, the news caused quite a few people to head for the Broadcom Support Portal, the only source of legal downloads, leading blogger Matt Duggan to dub it The Worst Website In The Entire World.\nHe had a point. The long-suffering Reg FOSS desk already had a free personal VMware account, and we couldn't find the download anywhere.\nThere are two different versions of desktop VMware: VMware Workstation runs on Windows and Linux, and VMware Fusion for macOS (both Intel and Apple Silicon). As these full-function versions are now freeware, Virtzilla is discontinuing its existing free offering, VMware Player, on all three host OSes.\nIf you are a hardcore FOSS enthusiast, you may well meet the news with indifference. Linux and the BSD families have their own perfectly good all-FOSS hypervisors, and they are capable tools. Similarly, Windows users \u2013 at least, those with the Pro edition or better \u2013 get Hyper-V thrown in for free.\nApple's macOS has a built-in hypervisor, too, but it lacks a friendly UI. There are alternatives: we looked at UTM last year, as one example. UTM lacks handy tools such as VM snapshots, though.\nWe reckon the most direct rival is Oracle's VirtualBox, which we last looked at when version 7.0 came out in 2022. The latest version is version 7.1, released in September.\nThere is a widely-held misunderstanding that VirtualBox is not really FOSS, or that its Guest Additions aren't, or that it's crippled without them. None of these beliefs are true \u2013 the program is entirely GPL3 Free Software and it's in the repositories of many Linux distros, as are its Guest Additions. For instance, in an Ubuntu VM, you can just type sudo apt install -y virtualbox-guest-x11 and it will install the guest additions direct from Ubuntu's repositories. You don't need the Guest Additions, but they provide some handy extra features \u2013 such as bi-directional copy-and-paste between guest and host, and 3D accelerated graphics drivers.\nThe part of VirtualBox that is not free is the VirtualBox Extension Pack, which has its own license. It's free for non-commercial use, but production use of the Extension Pack needs a paid per-seat license \u2013 or a $50-per-seat enterprise version. The Extension Pack provides some extra bells and whistles \u2013 such as encrypted virtual disks, connection to VMs over RDP, PXE boot, PCI passthrough, and so on. If you don't need those things, you can use VirtualBox fine without the Extension Pack. VirtualBox 7 includes built-in support for USB 2 and 3 in VMs, which did need the Extension Pack in older versions.\nSo we regard VirtualBox as the principal cross-platform rival to VMware Workstation: the features are broadly comparable, and the base program really is FOSS, while VMware is freeware. Saying that, in some of this vulture's previous roles, colleagues were dismissive of VirtualBox as an inferior tool. It's not FOSS, but VMware is somewhat more capable \u2013 although in our testing on Ubuntu 24.10, VMWare Workstation told us that 3D acceleration and sound were not available.\nAT&T and Broadcom may settle VMware support case\nBroadcom's VMware strategy looks ever more shaky - and less relevant\nResearch suggests more than half of VMware customers are looking to move\nBroadcom promised to reform VMware so it enables better hybrid clouds. Will it deliver?\nIn recent years, full hardware-assisted virtualization is becoming common, generic functionality that most processor architectures include in some form. This makes hypervisors much easier to create and run \u2013 essentially they are providing an easy UI around something the hardware does anyway. The value lies in additional features, especially for corporate server hypervisors, such as live migration of VMs from one host to another.\nDesktop tools are, we suspect, not very lucrative any more. So making its VMware desktop tools free of charge is an interesting move for Broadcom: it could be hoping for some \"halo effect\" to help keep customers in its marketplace of tools and formats.\nLonger term, it could be that desktop VMware will become a lighter-weight tool that relies upon facilities provided by the underlying OS. A recent patch to the Linux kernel allows VMware to run VMs using the kernel's KVM feature:\nTo be able to switch VMware products running on Linux to KVM some minor changes are required to let KVM run/resume unmodified VMware guests.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "VMware Workstation and Fusion free for everyone",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}