{
    "authors": [
        "Jack Gilleland"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2022-12-30 07:31:18",
    "description": "Learn more about whether Broadcom Inc or Qualcomm Inc is a better investment based on AAII's A+ Investor grades, which compare both companies' key financial metrics.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": null,
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Sifting through countless of stocks in the Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment industry can be tedious, and sometimes two stocks are just too similar to judge which is the better investment. If you\u2019re on the fence about investing in Broadcom Inc. or QUALCOMM Incorporated because you\u2019re not sure how they measure up, it\u2019s important to compare them on a few factors before making your decision.\nRead on to learn how Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated compare based on key financial metrics to determine which better meets your investment needs.\nAbout Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated\nBroadcom Inc. designs, develops, and supplies various semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor based devices and analog III-V based products worldwide. The company operates in two segments, Semiconductor Solutions and Infrastructure Software. It provides set-top box system-on-chips (SoCs); cable, digital subscriber line, and passive optical networking central office/consumer premise equipment SoCs; wireless local area network access point SoCs; Ethernet switching and routing custom silicon solutions; serializer/deserializer application specific integrated circuits; optical and copper, and physical layer devices; and fiber optic components and RF semiconductor devices. The company also offers RF front end modules and filter; Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and global positioning system/global navigation satellite system SoCs; custom touch controllers; inductive charging; attached small computer system interface, and redundant array of independent disks controllers and adapters; peripheral component interconnect express; fiber channel host bus adapters; read channel based SoCs; custom flash controllers; preamplifiers; optocouplers, industrial fiber optics, and motion control encoders and subsystems; light emitting diode, ethernet PHYs, switch ICs, and camera microcontrollers. Its products are used in various applications, including enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. Broadcom Inc. was founded in 1961 and is headquartered in Palo Alto, California.\nQUALCOMM Incorporated engages in the development and commercialization of foundational technologies for the wireless industry worldwide. It operates through three segments: Qualcomm CDMA Technologies (QCT); Qualcomm Technology Licensing (QTL); and Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives (QSI). The QCT segment develops and supplies integrated circuits and system software with advanced connectivity and high-performance, and low-power computing technologies for use in mobile devices; automotive systems for connectivity, digital cockpit, and ADAS/AD; and IoT, including consumer electronic devices, industrial devices, and edge networking products. The QTL segment grants licenses or provides rights to use portions of its intellectual property portfolio, which include various patent rights useful in the manufacture and sale of wireless products comprising products implementing CDMA2000, WCDMA, LTE and/or OFDMA-based 5G products. The QSI segment invests in early-stage companies in various industries, including 5G, artificial intelligence, automotive, consumer, enterprise, cloud, IoT, and extended reality, and investments, including non-marketable equity securities and, to a lesser extent, marketable equity securities, and convertible debt instruments. It also provides development, and other services and sells related products to the United States government agencies and their contractors. The company was incorporated in 1985 and is headquartered in San Diego, California.\nLatest Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment and Broadcom Inc., QUALCOMM Incorporated Stock News\nAs of November 29, 2024, Broadcom Inc. had a $757.0 billion market capitalization, compared to the Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment median of $2.7 million. Broadcom Inc.\u2019s stock is down 85.1% in 2024, up 1.4% in the previous five trading days and up 72.27% in the past year.\nCurrently, Broadcom Inc.\u2019s price-earnings ratio is 137.1. Broadcom Inc.\u2019s trailing 12-month revenue is $46.8 billion with a 10.9% net profit margin. Year-over-year quarterly sales growth most recently was 47.3%. Analysts expect adjusted earnings to reach $4.853 per share for the current fiscal year. Broadcom Inc. currently has a 1.3% dividend yield.\nAs of November 29, 2024, QUALCOMM Incorporated had a $176.1 billion market cap, putting it in the 99th percentile of all stocks. QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s stock is up 12.7% in 2024, up 4% in the previous five trading days and up 23.94% in the past year.\nCurrently, QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s price-earnings ratio is 17.7. QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s trailing 12-month revenue is $39.0 billion with a 26.0% net profit margin. Year-over-year quarterly sales growth most recently was 18.7%. Analysts expect adjusted earnings to reach $11.193 per share for the current fiscal year. QUALCOMM Incorporated currently has a 2.1% dividend yield.\nHow We Compare Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated Stock Grades\nStock evaluation requires access to huge amounts of data and the knowledge and time to sift through it all, make sense of financial ratios, read income statements and analyze recent stock movements. AAII created A+ Investor, a robust data suite that condenses data research in an actionable and customizable way suitable for investors of all knowledge levels, to help investors streamline and work through such data.\nAAII\u2019s proprietary stock grades come with A+ Investor. These offer intuitive A&hyphen;F grades for each of five key investing factors: value, growth, momentum, earnings estimate revisions and quality. Here, we\u2019ll take a closer look at Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s stock grades to see how they measure up against one another.\nLearn more about A+ Investor here!\nSign Up to Receive a Free Special Report Showing How A+ Grades Can Help You Make Smarter Investment Decisions\nBroadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated Stock Value Grades\nCompany Ticker Value Broadcom Inc. AVGO F QUALCOMM Incorporated QCOM D\nSuccessful stock investing involves buying low and selling high, so stock valuation is an important consideration for stock selection.\nBuying stocks that are going to go up typically means buying stocks that are undervalued in the first place, although momentum investors may argue that point.\nAAII\u2019s A+ Investor Value Grade derives from a stock\u2019s value score. The Value Score is the percentile rank of the average of the percentile ranks of the price-to-sales ratio, price-earnings ratio, enterprise-value-to-EBITDA (EV/EBITDA) ratio, shareholder yield, price-to-book-value ratio and price-to-free-cash-flow ratio. The score is variable, meaning it can consider all six ratios or, should any of the six ratios not be valid, the remaining ratios that are valid. To be assigned a Value Score, stocks must have a valid (non-null) ratio and corresponding ranking for at least two of the six valuation ratios.\nStocks with a Value Score from 81 to 100 are considered deep value, those with a score between 61 and 80 are a good value and so on.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Value Score of 1, which is Ultra Expensive. QUALCOMM Incorporated has a Value Score of 36, which is Expensive.\nThe Value Stock Winner: No Clear Winner\nNeither Broadcom Inc. or QUALCOMM Incorporated has a high enough value grade to be considered a \u201cwinner.\u201d Investors who are considering these companies should do additional due diligence and research to see if either could be a good addition to their portfolio. It\u2019s important to look at a wide range of financial metrics in order to determine if Broadcom Inc. or QUALCOMM Incorporated is the better investment when it comes to value.\nBroadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated Growth Grades\nCompany Ticker Growth Broadcom Inc. AVGO A QUALCOMM Incorporated QCOM B\nThe foundation of growth investing is seeking out stocks of companies exhibiting strong, consistent and prolonged growth that is expected to continue into the future.\nIn order to compute the growth score and assign it a letter grade, the percentile ranks for each of three components&hyphen;consistency of annual sales growth, five-year sales growth rankings adjusted for extreme levels, and consistency of positive annual cash from operations&hyphen;must be determined. These three rank figures are added together, and the sum is ranked against the entire stock universe to arrive at a company\u2019s Growth Score to create an equal distribution of grades.\nThe companies in the bottom 20% of the stock universe receive Growth Grades of F, considered to be very weak, while those in the top 20% receive A grades, which are considered very strong.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Growth Score of 91, which is Very Strong. QUALCOMM Incorporated has a Growth Score of 72, which is Strong.\nThe Growth Grade Winner: Broadcom Inc.\nAs you can clearly see from the Growth Grade breakdown above, Broadcom Inc. has a more attractive growth grade than QUALCOMM Incorporated. For investors who focus solely on how a company is growing relative to other companies in the same industry, Broadcom Inc. could be a good stock to add to their portfolio. However, it\u2019s important for investors to analyze multiple factors based on a wide range of metrics before deciding whether to buy.\nBroadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s Momentum Grades\nCompany Ticker Momentum Broadcom Inc. AVGO B QUALCOMM Incorporated QCOM C\nMomentum grades help to uncover stocks experiencing anomalously high rates of return; research finds that stocks with high relative levels of momentum tend to outperform, whereas those with low levels of momentum tend to continue underperforming. Momentum is based on the price change of a stock over a specified period relative to all other stocks.\nTypically, AAII looks at the weighted relative strength over the trailing four quarters. The weighted four-quarter relative strength rank is the relative price change for each of the past four quarters. The most recent quarterly price change is given a weight of 40% and each of the three previous quarters are given a weighting of 20%.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Momentum Score of 78, which is Strong. QUALCOMM Incorporated has a Momentum Score of 52, which is Average.\nThe Momentum Grade Winner: Broadcom Inc.\nAs you can clearly see from the Momentum Grade breakdown above, Broadcom Inc. is considered to have stronger momentum compared to QUALCOMM Incorporated. For those specifically looking for companies that have stronger momentum compared to other companies in the same industry, Broadcom Inc. could be a good stock to invest in. However, it\u2019s important for investors to analyze multiple factors based on a wide range of metrics before deciding whether to buy.\nOther Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated Grades\nIn addition to Value, Growth and Momentum, A+ Investor also provides grades for Estimate Revisions and Quality.\nEarnings estimate revisions scores take into account the magnitude of a company\u2019s earnings surprise in its last two reported fiscal quarters. Often, surprises beget further surprises&hyphen;or at least continued sales growth (the exact opposite is generally true, too).\nAAII\u2019s A+ Investor Quality Grade comes from the ranking of key metrics. Specifically, the quality grade is the percentile rank of the composite of return on assets (ROA), return on invested capital (ROIC), gross profit relative to assets, buyback yield, change in total liabilities to assets, accruals, Z double prime bankruptcy risk (Z) score and F-Score.\nThese 2 key factors, when combined with the above, provide a holistic view into a particular stock. Further, by joining A+ Investor you can see whether Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated pass any of our 60+ stock screens that have outperformed the market since their creation.\nSo, Which Is the Better Investment, Broadcom Inc. or QUALCOMM Incorporated Stock?\nOverall, Broadcom Inc. stock has a Value Score of 1, Growth Score of 91 and Momentum Score of 78.\nQUALCOMM Incorporated stock has a Value Score of 36, Growth Score of 72 and Momentum Score of 52.\nComparing Broadcom Inc. and QUALCOMM Incorporated\u2019s grades, scores and metrics can act as a solid basis to determine whether they may be a good investment or not. You\u2019ll also want to look at your portfolio\u2019s asset allocation as well as your risk tolerance and financial goals to see if either of these stocks would make a good fit for you. AAII can help you figure out which investments align with your individual needs and preferences.\nInvestors are encouraged to do their own due diligence and research. In this way, individuals can effectively become managers of their own assets&hyphen;without having to rely on others for financial independence. You can count on AAII for timeless articles on financial planning and stock-picking, unbiased research and actionable analysis.\nA+ Investor adds to our qualitative teaching with a powerful data suite to help you whittle down investment choices to find stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or mutual funds that meet your needs.\nAAII Disclaimer\nWe make no representations or warranties that any investor will, or is likely to, achieve profits similar to those shown, because past, hypothetical or simulated performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Before making an investment decision, you should consider your circumstances and whether the information on our content is applicable to your situation. This information was prepared in good faith, and we accept no liability for any errors or omissions. The full disclaimer can be read here.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Which Is a Better Investment, Broadcom Inc or Qualcomm Inc Stock?",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}