{
    "authors": [
        "Jack Gilleland"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2023-01-06 07:30:12",
    "description": "Learn more about whether Broadcom Inc or NVIDIA Corporation is a better investment based on AAII's A+ Investor grades, which compare both companies' key financial metrics.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": null,
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Sifting through countless of stocks in the Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment industry can be tedious, and sometimes two stocks are just too similar to judge which is the better investment. If you\u2019re on the fence about investing in Broadcom Inc. or NVIDIA Corporation because you\u2019re not sure how they measure up, it\u2019s important to compare them on a few factors before making your decision.\nRead on to learn how Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation compare based on key financial metrics to determine which better meets your investment needs.\nAbout Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation\nBroadcom Inc. designs, develops, and supplies various semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor based devices and analog III-V based products worldwide. The company operates in two segments, Semiconductor Solutions and Infrastructure Software. It provides set-top box system-on-chips (SoCs); cable, digital subscriber line, and passive optical networking central office/consumer premise equipment SoCs; wireless local area network access point SoCs; Ethernet switching and routing custom silicon solutions; serializer/deserializer application specific integrated circuits; optical and copper, and physical layer devices; and fiber optic components and RF semiconductor devices. The company also offers RF front end modules and filter; Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and global positioning system/global navigation satellite system SoCs; custom touch controllers; inductive charging; attached small computer system interface, and redundant array of independent disks controllers and adapters; peripheral component interconnect express; fiber channel host bus adapters; read channel based SoCs; custom flash controllers; preamplifiers; optocouplers, industrial fiber optics, and motion control encoders and subsystems; light emitting diode, ethernet PHYs, switch ICs, and camera microcontrollers. Its products are used in various applications, including enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. Broadcom Inc. was founded in 1961 and is headquartered in Palo Alto, California.\nNVIDIA Corporation provides graphics and compute and networking solutions in the United States, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and internationally. The Graphics segment offers GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU or vGPU software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse software for building and operating metaverse and 3D internet applications. The Compute & Networking segment comprises Data Center computing platforms and end-to-end networking platforms, including Quantum for InfiniBand and Spectrum for Ethernet; NVIDIA DRIVE automated-driving platform and automotive development agreements; Jetson robotics and other embedded platforms; NVIDIA AI Enterprise and other software; and DGX Cloud software and services. The company\u2019s products are used in gaming, professional visualization, data center, and automotive markets. It sells its products to original equipment manufacturers, original device manufacturers, system integrators and distributors, independent software vendors, cloud service providers, consumer internet companies, add-in board manufacturers, distributors, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, and other ecosystem participants. NVIDIA Corporation was incorporated in 1993 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California.\nLatest Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment and Broadcom Inc., NVIDIA Corporation Stock News\nAs of November 29, 2024, Broadcom Inc. had a $757.0 billion market capitalization, compared to the Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment median of $2.7 million. Broadcom Inc.\u2019s stock is down 85.1% in 2024, up 1.4% in the previous five trading days and up 72.27% in the past year.\nCurrently, Broadcom Inc.\u2019s price-earnings ratio is 137.1. Broadcom Inc.\u2019s trailing 12-month revenue is $46.8 billion with a 10.9% net profit margin. Year-over-year quarterly sales growth most recently was 47.3%. Analysts expect adjusted earnings to reach $4.853 per share for the current fiscal year. Broadcom Inc. currently has a 1.3% dividend yield.\nAs of November 29, 2024, NVIDIA Corporation had a $3.4 trillion market cap, putting it in the 100th percentile of all stocks. NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s stock is down 72% in 2024, down 2.3% in the previous five trading days and up 187.18% in the past year.\nCurrently, NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s price-earnings ratio is 54.6. NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s trailing 12-month revenue is $113.3 billion with a 55.7% net profit margin. Year-over-year quarterly sales growth most recently was 93.6%. Analysts expect adjusted earnings to reach $2.954 per share for the current fiscal year. NVIDIA Corporation does not currently pay a dividend.\nHow We Compare Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation Stock Grades\nStock evaluation requires access to huge amounts of data and the knowledge and time to sift through it all, make sense of financial ratios, read income statements and analyze recent stock movements. AAII created A+ Investor, a robust data suite that condenses data research in an actionable and customizable way suitable for investors of all knowledge levels, to help investors streamline and work through such data.\nAAII\u2019s proprietary stock grades come with A+ Investor. These offer intuitive A&hyphen;F grades for each of five key investing factors: value, growth, momentum, earnings estimate revisions and quality. Here, we\u2019ll take a closer look at Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s stock grades to see how they measure up against one another.\nLearn more about A+ Investor here!\nSign Up to Receive a Free Special Report Showing How A+ Grades Can Help You Make Smarter Investment Decisions\nBroadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation Stock Value Grades\nCompany Ticker Value Broadcom Inc. AVGO F NVIDIA Corporation NVDA F\nSuccessful stock investing involves buying low and selling high, so stock valuation is an important consideration for stock selection.\nBuying stocks that are going to go up typically means buying stocks that are undervalued in the first place, although momentum investors may argue that point.\nAAII\u2019s A+ Investor Value Grade derives from a stock\u2019s value score. The Value Score is the percentile rank of the average of the percentile ranks of the price-to-sales ratio, price-earnings ratio, enterprise-value-to-EBITDA (EV/EBITDA) ratio, shareholder yield, price-to-book-value ratio and price-to-free-cash-flow ratio. The score is variable, meaning it can consider all six ratios or, should any of the six ratios not be valid, the remaining ratios that are valid. To be assigned a Value Score, stocks must have a valid (non-null) ratio and corresponding ranking for at least two of the six valuation ratios.\nStocks with a Value Score from 81 to 100 are considered deep value, those with a score between 61 and 80 are a good value and so on.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Value Score of 1, which is Ultra Expensive. NVIDIA Corporation has a Value Score of 7, which is Ultra Expensive.\nThe Value Stock Winner: No Clear Winner\nNeither Broadcom Inc. or NVIDIA Corporation has a high enough value grade to be considered a \u201cwinner.\u201d Investors who are considering these companies should do additional due diligence and research to see if either could be a good addition to their portfolio. It\u2019s important to look at a wide range of financial metrics in order to determine if Broadcom Inc. or NVIDIA Corporation is the better investment when it comes to value.\nBroadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s Quality Grades\nCompany Ticker Quality Broadcom Inc. AVGO C NVIDIA Corporation NVDA A\nLike the Value Grade, AAII\u2019s A+ Investor Quality Grade comes from the percentile rank of key metrics. Specifically, the Quality Score is the percentile rank of the average of the percentile ranks of return on assets (ROA), return on invested capital (ROIC), gross profit relative to assets, buyback yield, change in total liabilities to assets, accruals, Z double prime bankruptcy risk (Z) score and the F-Score.\nThe score is variable, meaning it can consider all eight measures or, should any of the eight measures not be valid, the remaining measures that are valid. To be assigned a Quality Score, stocks must have a valid (non-null) measure and corresponding ranking for at least four of the eight quality measures.\nThe Quality Score is used to assess the underlying \u201cquality\u201d of a particular stock. A higher-quality stock possesses traits associated with upside potential and reduced downside risk. Backtesting of the Quality Grade shows that stocks with higher grades, on average, outperformed stocks with lower grades over the period of 1998 through 2019.\nStocks receive better grades (higher scores) for having higher scores for the quality subcomponents and worse grades (lower scores) for lower scores for the subcomponents.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Quality Score of 52, which is Average. NVIDIA Corporation has a Quality Score of 94, which is Very Strong.\nThe Quality Grade Winner: NVIDIA Corporation\nAs you can clearly see from the Quality Grade breakdown above, NVIDIA Corporation has a better overall quality grade than Broadcom Inc.. For investors who are looking for companies with higher quality than others in the same industry, NVIDIA Corporation could be a good stock to add to their portfolios. However, it\u2019s important for investors to analyze multiple factors based on a wide range of metrics before deciding whether to buy.\nBroadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s Estimate Revisions Grades\nCompany Ticker Earnings Estimate Broadcom Inc. AVGO C NVIDIA Corporation NVDA B\nEarnings estimate revisions scores consider the magnitude of a company\u2019s earnings surprise in its last two reported fiscal quarters. Often, positive surprises beget further positive surprises&hyphen;or at least continued sales growth (the exact opposite is generally true, too).\nEstimate revisions offer an indication of what analysts are thinking about the short-term prospects of a firm. Estimate revisions are based on the statistical significance of a firm\u2019s last two quarterly earnings surprises and the percentage change in its consensus estimate for the current fiscal year over the past month and past three months.\nBroadcom Inc. has a Earnings Estimate Score of 46, which is Neutral. NVIDIA Corporation has a Earnings Estimate Score of 70, which is Positive.\nThe Earnings Estimate Revisions Grade Winner: NVIDIA Corporation\nAs you can clearly see from the Earnings Estimate Revisions Grade breakdown above, NVIDIA Corporation has a better Earnings Estimate Revisions Grade than Broadcom Inc.. For those who are specifically looking for companies with better short-term prospects when compared to other companies in the same industry, NVIDIA Corporation could be a good stock to invest in. However, it\u2019s important to analyze multiple factors based on a wide range of metrics before deciding whether to buy.\nOther Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation Grades\nIn addition to Estimate Revisions, Value and Quality, A+ Investor also provides grades for Growth and Momentum.\nMomentum grades help uncover stocks experiencing anomalously high rates of return; research finds that stocks with high relative levels of momentum tend to outperform, whereas those with low levels of momentum tend to continue underperforming.\nGrowth investing builds on the idea that stocks of companies exhibiting strong, consistent and prolonged growth outperform those of slower-growth companies. AAII measures growth through consistency of annual sales growth, five-year sales growth rankings adjusted for extreme levels, and consistency of positive annual cash from operations.\nThese 2 key factors, when combined with the above, provide a holistic view into a particular stock. Further, by joining A+ Investor you can see whether Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation pass any of our 60+ stock screens that have outperformed the market since their creation.\nSo, Which Is the Better Investment, Broadcom Inc. or NVIDIA Corporation Stock?\nOverall, Broadcom Inc. stock has a Value Score of 1, Estimate Revisions Score of 46 and Quality Score of 52.\nNVIDIA Corporation stock has a Value Score of 7, Estimate Revisions Score of 70 and Quality Score of 94.\nComparing Broadcom Inc. and NVIDIA Corporation\u2019s grades, scores and metrics can act as a solid basis to determine whether they may be a good investment or not. You\u2019ll also want to look at your portfolio\u2019s asset allocation as well as your risk tolerance and financial goals to see if either of these stocks would make a good fit for you. AAII can help you figure out which investments align with your individual needs and preferences.\nInvestors are encouraged to do their own due diligence and research. In this way, individuals can effectively become managers of their own assets&hyphen;without having to rely on others for financial independence. You can count on AAII for timeless articles on financial planning and stock-picking, unbiased research and actionable analysis.\nA+ Investor adds to our qualitative teaching with a powerful data suite to help you whittle down investment choices to find stocks, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) or mutual funds that meet your needs.\nAAII Disclaimer\nWe make no representations or warranties that any investor will, or is likely to, achieve profits similar to those shown, because past, hypothetical or simulated performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Before making an investment decision, you should consider your circumstances and whether the information on our content is applicable to your situation. This information was prepared in good faith, and we accept no liability for any errors or omissions. The full disclaimer can be read here.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Which Is a Better Investment, Broadcom Inc or NVIDIA Corporation Stock?",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}