{
    "authors": [],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 00:00:00",
    "description": "Search & read all of our Tesla Model Y reviews by top motoring journalists. The Tesla Model Y mid-size SUV is arguably the vehicle that took Tesla into the mainstream, and that\u2019s saying something given the preceding success of its sibling, the Model 3 mid-size sedan.A bonafide sales success both locally and globally, the Model Y capitalises on the crossover craze with an electric vehicle (EV) that\u2019s got its tyres firmly planted in the future.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": null,
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "It\u2019s a popular barbecue or front bar topic of discussion: How do Tesla cars work? Fundamentally it\u2019s pretty simple; they work like any other car, but they use an electric motor in place of an internal combustion engine. And instead of filling them with petrol, you recharge the batteries with electricity. There are other differences, too, but that\u2019s the simplest definition of what is a Tesla, and the one that allows it to operate on fully renewable energy on some cases.\nTesla is a company founded by Elon Musk, the same guy that invented PayPal. So the company has plenty of money behind it. As well as cars, Tesla makes home storage batteries (for storing rooftop solar power) and is investing in all sorts of renewable technology and electrical components.\nOver time, the Tesla cars product has evolved from a small sports car converted to electric, to clean-sheet designs for modern electric cars, SUV, pick-ups and even a semi-trailer than runs on electricity. But which ever Tesla you\u2019re talking about, they all use a common philosophy.\nThat starts with a battery. In the case of Tesla\u2019s current designs, that\u2019s the latest lithium-ion battery tech. Connected to that is either a single electric motor or a pair of motors that power either the rear wheels or all four wheels respectively. Just like a slot car, you feed power to the electric motor and the car moves. Of course, a slot car doesn\u2019t carry a battery, it picks up its power form the track it runs on, but even that could be a thing of the future for electric cars which might be able to wirelessly collect power through the road surface. It\u2019s not as far off as you might think.\nOther differences between a Tesla (and any other mainstream electric car) and a conventional car as we know it include bakes that recoup energy as the car slows (which is used to recharge the battery on the run) and the electrification of every system that is handled mechanically by a conventional car (brake boosting, power steering, heating etc).\nAnother major difference is that the Tesla drivetrain doesn\u2019t feature multiple gears in its transmission. Because the electric motor offers maximum torque from standstill, the Tesla only needs one gear to achieve lots of acceleration and ample top speed.\nThe electric motor these days is a pretty neat piece of gear and is virtually maintenance free. It also has the potential to last a lot longer than an internal combustion engine. The batteries are also much better these days and as well as being vastly more energy-rich (their output per kg) they charge more quickly and battery life can easily be half a million kilometres. Some car-makers now offer a ten-year warranty on battery-packs. Tesla in Australia offers up to eight years battery warranty (depending on the model) but, crucially, up to 240,000km of cover guaranteeing that the battery will retain at least 70 per cent of its original capacity at that point.\nPerhaps Tesla\u2019s biggest claim to fame is that it took electric cars from golf carts to a product that was sexy and in demand. The company was way ahead of the curve in this regard, but now it seems the rest of the world is catching up, and the Tesla car has more serious competition now than it ever did.\nWhile the city of Detroit, Michigan is the cradle of the North American car industry, electric-car maker Tesla has always marched to the beat of its own drum. So even though it\u2019s a US based entity, Tesla\u2019s worldwide view and its inherent mould-breaking attitude means that its factories are in some interesting locations. But how many are there and in which countries?\nTesla currently has three giant plants across the USA, as well as a plant in China. Some of these plants make the Tesla cars we\u2019re familiar with, while others are responsible for battery and solar technology production. Tesla is also building a fourth North American plant as well as a European gigafactory in Germany, while rumours of a second Chinese plant are also doing the rounds.\nGiven that Tesla cars are the brand\u2019s most visible, recognisable products, the question usually revolves around where are Tesla cars made? In that case, the answer is the firm\u2019s original gigafactory in Fremont (near San Francisco in California) which builds the Tesla Model S, Model X, Model 3, Model Y as well as components for other Tesla products. The original gigafactory in Fremont is a huge facility (as are all Tesla factories) employing something like 10,000 people. It was once the site of a General Motors manufacturing plant and then a Toyota/GM joint production facility.\nThe Shanghai plant in China, meanwhile, is the other half of the answer to 'where are Tesla cars built'. That plant produces whole cars, including the Model 3 and Model Y and is slated to produce the forthcoming Telsa Pick-Up which has been pushed back to 2022 at the earliest.\nTesla\u2019s plant in Sparks, Nevada (Near Reno) is largely a battery factory with production of batteries for Tesla cars as well as its Powerwall home-storage battery. The Sparks plant is also a motors factory, producing the electric motors that power Tesla vehicles. The Tesla Semi (delayed but due soon) is also expected to be built at the Nevada plant.\nAnother Gigafactory is located in New York state, in the city of Buffalo. This concentrates on assembly of solar cells and modules as well as the superchargers that allow Tesla vehicles to be charged quickly in the field.\nThe factory under construction in the USA now is located at Austin, Texas and will be used to built the Model 3, Model Y and the Pick-Up. The new factory in Berlin, meanwhile, is very close to completion and will initially be used to build the Model Y.\nTesla has always been a brand surrounded by rumours, and these days, these seem to involve a second Chinese plant. The company has also established an Indian business unit, suggesting that a gigafactory on the sub-continent might also emerge.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Tesla Model Y Review, Colours, For Sale & News in Australia",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}