{
    "authors": [
        "Eric Zeman"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 22:19:06",
    "description": "I've been reviewing electronics for more than 20 years, and these four hand-picked headphone deals from Apple, Bose, Sennheiser, and Sony are among the best you'll hear.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://i.pcmag.com/imagery/articles/00EYeMeNZYAAlEXmoLjiZEe-2.fit_lim.size_1200x630.v1733165692.png",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "I manage the Consumer Electronics Reviews team at PCMag, so I am intimately familiar with a wide range of devices, from Bluetooth headphones to mobile phones, smart home products, tablets, and beyond. I've spent in excess of two decades reviewing products of all kinds, including more than a thousand phones, tons of tablets, and audio products of all kinds. I've been using Bluetooth headphones to listen to music since they first went on sale, and I consider myself an audiophile when it comes to reproducing high-fidelity sound. In other words, I have deep experience in what sounds good and what you should pay to get it.\nCyber Monday is here, and it's your last chance to save big on holiday gifts, whether they be for family and friends\u2014or yourself. Retailers are particularly prone to offering deep discounts on headphones and earphones, but some sale prices are better bargains than others. And don't forget, just because something is on sale doesn't mean it's worth buying. These are my shout-outs not only for the best deals on earphones and headphones but for the best earphones and headphones you should consider buying.\nSeeking more than sound savings? And don't forget to check out our live mega-post with the Best Cyber Monday Deals Available Right Now.\nThe Best Noise-Cancelling Earphone Deal\nApple's AirPods Pro 2 set a performance benchmark for iPhone owners. Normally $249, Amazon has dropped the price to $154 for Cyber Monday\u2014an absolute steal of a deal. This iconic in-ear pair is light, easy to wear, and feature deep integration with Apple's smartphones, tablets, and computers. They do a fine job of canceling noise and have a clean audio presentation that's quite good for the price. We like some of the latest features, such as the ability to perform a bonafide hearing test, and their automatic transparency mode so you can hear those around you when needed.\nThe Best Noise-Cancelling Headphone Deal\nBose is known for its crisp audio and its powerful noise cancellation. The Bose QuietComfort Headphones are an excellent pair of cans for their clean sound and noise-dampening electronics. Normally, Bose sells these headphones for $349, but you'll find them on sale for far less than that this Cyber Monday. Bose has discounted the headphones to $199, a savings of $150, or 43%, which makes them a near steal. While the QuietComfort Headphones aren't Bose's very best headphones, they're still some of the top noise-cancelling headphones you can buy and worth picking up this holiday season.\nThe Best Audiophile Earphone Deal\nIf you truly love listening to music, you want the highest-quality sound you can find. That's why I strongly recommend the Sony WF-1000XM5 earphones. These in-ear, noise-cancelling earphones support a range of advanced codecs for high-resolution playback, particularly if you're using an Android phone. You get 8 hours of listening time per charge with another 16 hours in the case (with noise-cancelling on). The case recharges wirelessly and is compact enough to take just about anywhere. Sony has discounted them from the normal $299 retail price to $229 for the holidays. That's a savings of $70, or about 26%. Music lovers who prefer earphones will find a lot to like about this deal.\nThe Best All-Around Headphone Deal\nThere's a lot to like about the Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless headphones. They don't necessarily beat the competition across the board, but they do everything well, and that makes them winners in our book. These over-ear cans are supremely comfortable to wear all day long\u2014and that's about how long they'll last, thanks to more than 60 hours of battery life with noise-cancelling on. Moreover, the sound signature is delightful, the companion app is powerful, and the controls are easy to master. If you make lots of calls, the 4-MEMS mic array makes them an excellent option. The Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless typically retail for $379.99, but they're on sale this holiday season for $229.99, a savings of $150, or about 39%. In other words, a win-win.\nLooking for more deals? Our Cyber Monday hub showcases all the latest deals on all the tech you want most.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Some of My Favorite Earbuds and Headphones Are Up to 40% Off for Cyber Monday",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}