{
    "authors": [
        "Eric Song"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 20:16:00",
    "description": "More powerful than the newest iPad or iPad Mini.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": null,
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "The iPad Air is our best iPad of 2024 because it\u2019s the ideal tablet for both casual and professional use, from watching videos, listening to music, getting creative with the Apple Pencil, to getting some work done using the Apple Smart Keyboard Folio or Apple Magic Keyboard. This is the most versatile iPad you can get, and the last day to get this deal at Target.\nThe 2024 iPad Air is nearly as powerful as the iPad Pro but at a much lower price point. It comes in two sizes, an 11\" display with 2360-by-1640 (264ppi) resolution and a 13\" display with 2732x2048 (264ppi) resolution. The display is superior to the one found on the standard iPad model with more premium features like P3 wide color, True Tone, and an ultra-low reflectivity film that helps combat glare and direct sunlight. Upgrades over the previous gen iPad Air include an M2 chip that's 15% faster in CPU performance and 25% faster in GPU performance over the M1, compatibility with the Apple Pencil Pro and Magic Keyboard, and adoption of newer connectivity standards like Wi-Fi 6E and USB Type-C.\nMore Apple iPad Deals\nBesides this iPad Air deal, the best Cyber Monday iPad deals right now are the 10th generation Apple iPad for $249.99, the 6th gen Apple iPad Mini for $299.99, and the current generation iPad Pro models starting at $850. If you're If you're looking for other Apple devices, check out our Apple Cyber Monday hub with deals on AirPods, Watches, and more.\nIf you're interested specifically in the 5th generation Apple iPad Air, I believe this will be the lowest price. There's even a chance that this deal will sell out and not return. However, if you're not yet sure which iPad to get, there will be more deals on other models by the time Black Friday is upon us. I'll add any new iPad deals to this list as I find them. The Apple Store is also hosting its own Cyber Monday Sale with their own set of discounts, although usually not as good.\nLooking for More iPad Resources?\nIf you're not sure which iPad is best for you, we have an iPad guide which details which iPad is ideal for which use case. If you intend want to get an iPad for schoolwork, we have an iPad guide for students as well. If you're looking for options outside of iOS, check out the best Android tablets of 2024.\nEric Song is the IGN commerce manager in charge of finding the best gaming and tech deals every day. When Eric isn't hunting for deals for other people at work, he's hunting for deals for himself during his free time.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Target Just Dropped the Best Cyber Monday iPad Air Deal on Our Favorite iPad of 2024",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}