{
    "authors": [
        "Divya Burman"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 15:27:03",
    "description": "Walmart Cyber Monday, which happens every year is among the greatest shopping events in the USA.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://static.soapcentral.com/editor/2024/12/3c620-17331703762616.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Walmart Cyber Monday, which happens every year is among the greatest shopping events in the USA. When it comes to holiday seasons, shoppers worldwide wait for what turns out to be the greatest sales of the year.\nThe unbeatable discount value that transcends many categories of products at stake makes this happen. Whether it's about refreshing your wardrobe, stocking up on essentials, or updating your gadgets, the Walmart Cyber Monday 2024 sale has something for everyone.\nAnother point of emphasis for the retailer is convenience. Most of the deals are available both online and through the Walmart app, making it possible to buy with free shipping on qualifying orders or to pick up items in stores easily. Members of Walmart Plus receive early access to certain deals ahead of non-members, who may end up fighting over some hot-ticket items.\nWalmart Cyber Monday 2024 sale: best early deals to avail right away\nCyber Monday at Walmart is the best on discounts for 2024 as compared to other stores. In-store discounts range from 20 percent to 70 percent for various items. The hottest categories with the deepest cuts are 4K TVs, laptops, gaming consoles, and kitchen appliances.\nWalmart also includes bundle deals, particularly those catering to its tech and gaming fans for added value. There are also catchy deals on houseware, fitness, clothing, and toys aside from fantastic technology deals.\nHere are the 8 best deals to avail yourself from the Walmart Cyber Monday sale:\n1. Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0 with Stand, Smokeless Fire Pit: $284.47, now $195.99 for Cyber Monday\nThe Solo Stove Bonfire brings our patented design into a more compact, travel-friendly size. This product is smokeless and portable and will stand up to a lifetime of firesides with family and camping nights with friends.\nIt easily sets up and starts fast for those no-trace fires out beyond the backyard, using our proprietary airflow design to maximize efficiency while keeping the smoke at bay.\nNEW VERSION of our popular Fire Pits featuring a removable base plate and ash pan that make cleaning an absolute breeze. Remove the ash pan to clean out the ashes in mere seconds by simply lifting out the base plate.\nThe fire pit for the garden is fueled by chunk firewood or small fire logs and offers all the advantages of a wood-burning fire minus the smoke or campfire smell sticking to your clothes.\n2. Apple AirPods Pro 2, Wireless Earbuds: $249, now $154 for Cyber Monday\nAirPods Pro 2 comes with professional-grade features like Advanced Active Noise Cancellation, Adaptive Audio, and Transparency Mode.\nIt further introduces Personalized Spatial Audio along with some groundbreaking innovations in hearing health: scientifically validated hearing test, clinical-grade hearing aid functionality, and active hearing protection.\n3. JLab JBuds Lux Active Noise Cancellation Bluetooth over-ear Headphones: $79.99, now $29 for Cyber Monday\nJBuds Lux ANC Headphones offer Smart Active Noise Cancellation and can be customized with options in the JLab App. These headphones are capable of delivering clear, uninterrupted audio that's perfect for you.\nThey have Cloud Foam\u2122 earcups and a headband for comfort, making each listening session enjoyable. Immersive Lab-Quality Sound lets you have an experience with amazing audio clarity in your music, movies, and much more.\nHybrid ANC and Be Aware Mode will block out distractions when needed or stay alert to what is going on. Extended Wear earcups and headbands. Personalized Sound Experience customize audio settings with ease using the JLab App.\nCrystal-Clear Calls are perfect for seamless communication. Perfect for work, play, or travel, the JBuds Lux ANC are your go-to headphones for premium sound and comfort.\n4. JBL Partybox 110 - Portable party speaker 160W: $349.95, now $199 for Cyber Monday\nJBL PartyBox 110 gives strong JBL Original Pro Sound with bass, and that makes it very ideal for indoor as well as outdoor activities. The 160W speaker also brings an IPX4 splash-proof design that means no stop to its up to 12 hours of playtime and mic as well as guitar inputs for uninterrupted fun.\nThe PartyBox app allows one to easily configure music and light settings, while multisource playback supports Bluetooth, USB, and aux connections. For the bigger sound, pair two PartyBox speakers with True Wireless Stereo (TWS) technology.\n5. 2022 Apple 10.9-inch iPad Wi-Fi 64GB: $331 for Cyber Monday\nThe 2022 Apple iPad is versatile and powerful, with a 10.9-inch Liquid Retina display, the A14 Bionic chip, and all-day battery life. It also comes with a 12MP back camera and video calls via a 12MP Ultra Wide front camera featuring Center Stage.\nTouch ID for faster, easier access Keep your activities connected to Wi-Fi 6 or 5G USB-C charge it, and connect accessories -all from this port. So the features are: running on iPad OS 16; comes with Apple Pencil(1stgen) and Smart Keyboard supporting work and creativity.\n6. Shark\u00ae Vertex DuoClean\u00ae PowerFin Upright Vacuum: $449, now $199 for Cyber Monday\nShark Vertex Powered Lift-Away is one of the most powerful upright vacuums for superior cleaning performance. With DuoClean PowerFins, it keeps continuous contact with floors and captures much more debris with each pass than the original DuoClean system. It takes the dust and dirt that the soft front roller will pull in while letting PowerFins do the rest.\nWith Powered Lift-Away, you can detach the pod for under-furniture cleaning with the motorized nozzle or tackle above-floor areas with the ease of a button click. Weighing in at 16.38 lbs., the AZ2000 is built for versatility and effective cleaning in every corner of your home.\n7. Ninja Blast 16 oz. Personal Portable Blender with Leak: $49.99, now $39.99 for Cyber Monday\nNinja Blast Portable Blender (BC100CR) is a high-speed Ninja blending power in a cordless, handheld design for convenience. Its 16-oz. capacity is ideal for smoothies, protein shakes, and frozen drinks.\nWith Ninja's BlastBlade Assembly, it can blend frozen ingredients with ease. The Ninja Blast Portable Blender is USB-C rechargeable and has a one-handed sip lid and a carrying handle to keep up with your active lifestyle on the go.\n8. Ninja\u00ae Grand Kitchen System 1200: $129, now for $107.73 for Cyber Monday\nEnjoy more than just blending with the Ninja Grand Kitchen System 1200. With a full-size 72-oz. pitcher, an 8-cup food processor bowl, and (1) 18-oz. single-serve cup, you have the family-sized capacity for any creation.\nUse it as either a blender, food processor, or dough mixer due to four preset and three manual programs. Create smoothies for one, frozen drinks for a crowd, prep for salsas, doughs, and much more in this versatile machine.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Walmart Cyber Monday 2024 sale: 8 best early deals to avail right away",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}