{
    "authors": [
        "Chris Reed"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 09:21:04",
    "description": "From iPads and MacBooks to AirPods and AirTags, these are all the best Apple deals still available for Cyber Monday.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": null,
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Cyber Monday is here, and thankfully most of the Black Friday deals carried over to today across Apple's biggest product categories. If you\u2019re in the market for a new pair of AirPods, an Apple Watch, an iPad, or even AirTags (for $72.99) to keep track of things you might lose, you can still save cash at retailers across the map. Whether you're already a fan of Apple or newly curious about a specific Apple gadget that may help you or a loved one, let\u2019s look at the wide array of trusted Apple products on sale still for Cyber Monday. Many of these make great gift ideas, too.\nAirPod Pro (2nd Gen with USB-C) is on sale at Amazon for $153.99 right now. That\u2019s the lowest price they've ever been. As for standard AirPods, both Amazon and Target are offering $10 off the new 4th gen AirPods with active noise cancellation, as well as the identical model without ANC. I personally prefer the Pro model because the silicon ear tips work well for me, but some people don't like them.\nA baseline 9th-gen iPad is on sale for $199, the same price it was during last year\u2019s Cyber Monday sale. Personally, I wouldn't pick this one up, because that model is three years old. Out of all of this year's Cyber Monday iPad deals, I'd go with the 10th-gen iPad, which is on sale at Amazon for $75 more and has a faster processor that will last longer. The iPad Mini deals are great if you like that form factor, or you can get significantly more power with an Air or Pro.\nThe Apple Watch is the best smartwatch for iOS users. It's sleek, stylish and full of useful features that complement your iPhone. If you don't have an Apple Watch or you are here shopping for a fellow Apple lover, we've got good news for you: All three Apple Watch models \u2013 the Apple Watch SE, the Apple Watch Series 10, and the Apple Watch Ultra \u2013 are all on sale at Amazon, Target, and Walmart.\nThis year's baseline MacBook Air with an M3 chip is on sale at Amazon for $899 as of December 2 \u2013 it was as low as $849 during Black Friday, but this is still a solid discount off its retail price. This is a fantastic laptop for just about anybody, and will last many years. And if you have any other Apple device (iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, AirPods), it syncs up your data automatically, which is always nice.\nAlternatively, you can pick up 2022's M2 chip-powered model for even less. I'd personally stick with the M3 if you can swing it, since it'll give you more bang for your buck. However, if you need even more power for editing, creative work, or gaming, the brand-new 2024 MacBook Pro with M4 chip is also on sale for $1,474, almost as low as it was on Black Friday ($1,399).\nJust like the Mini, the iMac, an all-in-one desktop computer, got the M4 upgrade this year. This computer starts at 16GB of RAM and comes in seven color options, from a staid silver to bold green, blue, and red, to name a few. The 4.5K display is the standout feature here, measuring 24\". The iMac also comes with a Magic Keyboard and Magic Mouse, both of which now have USB-C ports for charging. This machine looks great on any desk you put it on, and it packs a whole lot of computing power.\nOur Best Budget Mac for Gaming pick dropped even further in price for Cyber Monday, now at $529 - (it was $559 during Black Friday)\nApple's brand-new 2024 M4-powered Mac Mini is a powerful computer, despite its diminutive footprint. That M4 chip packs a wallop, easily handling nearly any computing task you can throw at it. Powered by Apple\u2019s M2 Pro chip with a 10-Core CPU, a 16-Core GPU, and a 16-Core Neural Engine, this tiny computer breezes through heavy tasks like video editing and much more.\nApple rarely offers discounts on its products, so instead of dropping prices in the Apple Store for Black Friday, it tosses in a free gift card with purchase. This year's Black Friday sale at the Apple Store runs November 29 - December 2 and gets you up to $200 in Apple gift cards with select purchases. What kinds of purchases? Pretty much any major product Apple sells: iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, AirPods, etc. Personally, I'd rather have an up-front discount at the retailers listed above, but if you plan on shopping at the Apple Store in the near future, a gift card could be a fine option too.\nShop More Cyber Monday Deals by Retailer\nAlso see IGN's 2024 tech gift guide which includes everything from practical products to cool gadgets while you shop.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "25+ Best Apple Cyber Monday Deals You Can Score Right Now: Save on iPads, Apple Watches, AirPods",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}