{
    "authors": [],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-11-01 00:00:00",
    "description": "Morningstar is an investment research company offering mutual fund, ETF, and stock analysis, ratings, and data, and portfolio tools. Discover actionable insights today.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://images.contentstack.io/v3/assets/blt4eb669caa7dc65b2/blta7dd42ebdd7b93b8/61899b34a3c7df383578294c/morningstar-og.png",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Stock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Our Valuation Rises to Reflect Stronger Long-Term Growth, but Less of an AI Impact\nWe raise our fair value estimate for wide-moat Apple to $200 from $185 as we raise our longer-term growth expectations. We\u2019ve also revised down our short-term forecast for iPhone revenue to reflect less of an impact from artificial intelligence on unit sales over the next two years. We believe Apple Intelligence will spur a return to mid-single-digit growth for iPhone revenue, but we believe the impact will be drawn out over the next two fiscal years. In the longer term, we expect iPhone unit sales and Apple\u2019s services segment to drive solid growth and for margin expansion to help drive double-digit earnings growth over the next five years.\nWilliam Kerwin\nCompany Report\nApple Offers Investors a Wide-Moat Dug From Tight Integration of Hardware, Software, and Services\nWe believe Apple has cemented a long-term position atop the consumer electronics industry with a focus on a premium ecosystem of tightly integrated hardware, software, and services. We see the flagship iPhone as the linchpin of this ecosystem, from which Apple derives pricing power, switching costs, and a network effect. In our view, every other Apple device and service sees its greatest value from further locking in customers to this walled garden. This approach earns the firm a wide economic moat rating.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: iPhone 16 Event Affirms Our Confidence in Strong Fiscal 2025 Growth Despite Overvalued Shares\nWe keep our $185 per share fair value estimate for wide-moat Apple after an impressive fall product event aligned with our long-term expectations. We continue to see Apple as a differentiated consumer technology provider with tight integration between its hardware and software driving a wide economic moat. The iPhone is the linchpin of this ecosystem. We were pleased with the new iPhone 16 lineup and believe these models will spur a strong growth cycle for Apple in fiscal 2025 as consumers look to use generative artificial intelligence features. Still, we believe overly bullish expectations are baked into Apple\u2019s stock price. To us, investors would need to expect 20% iPhone revenue growth in fiscal 2025 to justify the firm\u2019s current valuation. Our own forecast is closer to 10% iPhone revenue growth in fiscal 2025, and we see shares as overvalued.\nWilliam Kerwin\nCompany Report\nApple Earns Its Wide Moat Via Excellent Integration of Premium Hardware, Software, and Services\nWe believe Apple has cemented a long-term position atop the consumer electronics industry with a focus on a premium ecosystem of tightly integrated hardware, software, and services. We see the flagship iPhone as the linchpin of this ecosystem, from which Apple derives pricing power, switching costs, and a network effect. In our view, every other Apple device and service sees its greatest value from further locking in customers to this walled garden. This approach earns the firm a wide economic moat rating.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Higher iPhone Forecast Lifts Valuation to $185 From $170; Shares Still Out of Reach\nWe raised our fair value estimate for shares of wide-moat Apple to $185 from $170 after raising our medium-term iPhone revenue forecast. We continue to expect strong revenue growth in fiscal 2025 as users upgrade their iPhones to take advantage of Apple\u2019s generative artificial intelligence features, requiring the latest and greatest hardware. We now forecast double-digit iPhone revenue growth in fiscal 2025 and another strong year of revenue growth in fiscal 2026. IPhone revenue remains the primary driver of Apple\u2019s results. We see it as the linchpin to the firm\u2019s walled garden ecosystem of hardware, software, and services, which underpins our wide moat rating and long-term growth thesis. However, we continue to see shares as overvalued. Apple\u2019s current stock price implies closer to 20% iPhone revenue growth in fiscal 2025, which we see as lofty given headwinds to growth in China and slowing consumer phone upgrade cycles.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: Generative AI Announcements Fit With Our Expectations and We Maintain Our Valuation\nWe maintain our $170 fair value estimate for shares of wide-moat Apple after we viewed the opening keynote of its worldwide developers' conference positively and in line with our expectations. Apple unveiled long-awaited generative AI features, grouped under the moniker Apple Intelligence. After seeing the features, we continue to have confidence in a strong iPhone upgrade cycle in fiscal 2025, and we make no changes to our forecast or valuation. Customers will need an iPhone 15 Pro model or better to make full use of Apple Intelligence, which should drive new sales and upgrades, in our view. Apple also announced upgrades across its device operating systems, within which we liked the focus on customization and privacy. Apple shares had a tepid reaction to the keynote, which suggests to us that generative AI and upgrade cycle expectations were baked in to share prices. We see shares as moderately overvalued at current levels.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: We Expect New Models and New Chip to Spur Return to iPad Growth, in Line With Our Thesis\nWe maintain our $170 fair value estimate for the shares of wide-moat Apple, as our forecast is unchanged following the release of updated iPad models. We\u2019d been expecting new iPad models this spring, and the upgrades matched our general expectations for performance improvement. We were impressed by Apple\u2019s newest chip, the M4, which will slot into the iPad Pro. We retain our view that these updated models will spur new refreshes and end what we expect to be three years of revenue declines for the iPad. We project year-over-year and sequential iPad growth over the next three quarters. We see the stock as fairly valued.\nWilliam Kerwin\nCompany Report\nApple\u2019s Tightly Integrated Hardware, Software, and Services Drive Profitable Growth and a Wide Moat\nWe believe Apple has cemented a long-term position atop the consumer electronics industry with a focus on a premium ecosystem of tightly integrated hardware, software, and services. We see the flagship iPhone as the linchpin of this ecosystem, from which Apple derives pricing power, switching costs, and a network effect. In our view, every other Apple device and service sees its greatest value from further locking in customers to this walled garden. This approach earns the firm a wide economic moat rating.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Higher Medium-Term iPhone Forecast Brings Our Valuation Up to $170 From $160\nWe raise our fair value estimate for wide-moat Apple to $170 per share from $160, behind higher expectations for iPhone and services revenue in the medium term. Apple\u2019s March-quarter results were aligned with our model, although June-quarter guidance was below our rosy expectations. We expect a soft fiscal 2024 for Apple, driven by headwinds to iPhone revenue in China and slower iPhone refreshes globally. However, we raised our forecast for iPhone revenue growth in fiscal 2025 in anticipation of a stronger refresh cycle for the iPhone 16 in fall 2024 (Apple\u2019s first fiscal quarter.) We expect Apple's generative artificial intelligence product announcements this year will drive improved growth next year. Shares rose after hours in line with our valuation raise, which we attribute to lower iPhone downside out of China than investors may have feared. Shares look fairly valued to us.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: We're Comfortable With Our Thesis in Light of Antitrust Lawsuit\nWe maintain our $160 fair value estimate, medium uncertainty rating, and wide moat rating for Apple after the company was hit with an antitrust suit from the US Department of Justice. We are not surprised by the suit, as it had been rumored for months and follows similar action against other large technology firms like Alphabet's Google. We also don\u2019t foresee the suit resulting in a significant demolition of Apple\u2019s business or wide moat. In our base case, we assume the suit will result in some opening up of Apple\u2019s walled garden ecosystem, similar to what we expect from the European Union's Digital Markets Act. We continue to believe that most Apple users opt in to the firm\u2019s premium closed ecosystem, and we don\u2019t foresee significant attrition from Apple\u2019s products and services even under a more open environment. The shares dipped more than 3% intraday in March 21 trading, a stark difference from other technology stocks' positive performance. We see Apple as fairly valued.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Good Profits Offset Headwinds to iPhone and China Sales; Maintaining $160 Valuation\nWe maintain our $160 fair value estimate for shares of wide-moat Apple as we lower our short-term revenue forecast but raise our expectations for profitability. Apple\u2019s December quarter iPhone revenue and gross margin exceeded our expectations. Still, we believe the iPhone will see a softer adoption cycle this year and lower our fiscal 2024 forecast for iPhone revenue to a modest decline. Apple is also facing revenue headwinds in China. In the short term, we see demand headwinds for Apple relating to elongating personal device replacement cycles and more aggressive domestic alternatives in China. In the long term, we maintain our view that Apple can drive growth from its unique combination of hardware, software, and services that also elicits steep customer switching costs and underpins our wide moat rating. Apple shares went about 3% lower following results, likely due to weaker China results and lower iPhone expectations, but we continue to see the stock as overvalued.\nWilliam Kerwin\nCompany Report\nApple\u2019s Unique Walled Garden of Hardware, Software, and Services Carves a Wide Moat\nWe believe Apple has cemented a long-term position atop the consumer electronics industry with a focus on a premium ecosystem of tightly integrated hardware, software, and services. We see the flagship iPhone as the linchpin of this ecosystem, from which Apple derives pricing power, switching costs, and a network effect. In our view, every other Apple device and service sees its greatest value from further locking in customers to this walled garden. This approach earns the firm a wide economic moat rating.\nWilliam Kerwin\nCompany Report\nApple\u2019s Ecosystem of Integrated Hardware and Software Is Differentiated and Merits a Wide Moat\nWe believe Apple has cemented a long-term position atop the consumer electronics industry with a focus on a premium ecosystem of tightly integrated hardware, software, and services. We see the flagship iPhone as the linchpin of this ecosystem, from which Apple derives pricing power, switching costs, and a network effect. In our view, every other Apple device and service sees its greatest value from further locking in customers to this walled garden. This approach earns the firm a wide economic moat rating.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: We Raise Our Sales Forecast and Raise Our FVE to $160 but Continue to See Shares as Rich\nWe raise our fair value estimate for wide-moat Apple to $160 per share, from $150, after modest upward revisions to our five-year sales forecast. We also lower our Uncertainty Rating for Apple to Medium, from High, based on higher conviction in the firm\u2019s ability to offset consumer spending cycles with its premium and differentiated approach. We continue to see Apple as a dominant technology ecosystem provider meriting a wide economic moat, and we maintain our Exemplary capital allocation rating based on a strong investment track record that has helped carve the firm\u2019s moat.\nWilliam Kerwin\nStock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Steady iPhone Demand, While Services and Gross Margins Steal the Show\nWide-moat Apple reported solid fiscal fourth-quarter results while providing investors with a decent fiscal first-quarter outlook with revenue in line with our expectations, but modestly below FactSet consensus estimates, which we think contributed to the 3% selloff in shares after hours. We maintain our $150 fair value estimate and view shares as modestly overvalued as we don\u2019t foresee massive hardware growth out of existing products like the iPhone in the years ahead.\nBrian Colello\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: We\u2019re Pleased With iPhone 15 and Watch Innovations, but Shares Are Still Rich\nWe maintain our $150 fair value estimate for wide-moat Apple as the company announced its annual update to its lineup of iPhones (the iPhone 15 series) and watches (Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2). Overall, we\u2019re delighted with Apple\u2019s innovation within these devices, as the firm continues to show off its cumulative expertise (and competitive advantage) in hardware, software, services, and semiconductors. Nonetheless, with shares trading around $175, we continue to view shares as modestly overvalued as we foresee only mid-single-digit revenue growth for the company over the next few years.\nBrian Colello\nStock Analyst Note\nApple Earnings: Steady Business Conditions as Next Wave of iPhones Is on Deck; Maintain Valuation\nWide-moat Apple reported solid results for its fiscal third quarter and provided investors with a flattish outlook for the fourth quarter. We continue to take Apple\u2019s results in both the June and September quarters with a grain of salt as they are composed of the older iPhone series; we would instead keep our eyes on the next wave of Apple devices and whether the company can entice a larger portion of its customer base to buy the latest and greatest iPhone.\nBrian Colello\nStock Analyst Note\nApple: Vision Pro Points to the Future of AR, but Won\u2019t Displace the iPhone Just Yet\nAs expected, Apple\u2019s Worldwide Developers Conference keynote was highlighted by Apple Vision Pro, the company\u2019s augmented reality headset expected to arrive in early 2024. We maintain our $150 fair value estimate for Apple, as we don\u2019t envision the company selling enough units of these devices to move the needle on its massive valuation, which is still dominated by the far more pervasive iPhone.\nBrian Colello\nCompany Report\nApple\u2019s iOS Dominance Warrants a Wide Economic Moat\nApple\u2019s consumer hardware dominance stems from its ability to package hardware, software, services, semiconductors, and third-party applications into sleek, intuitive, and appealing devices. This expertise, coupled with its walled garden approach for its unique iOS ecosystem, enables the firm to capture a premium on its devices, unlike most of its peers that rely on open operating systems, Windows and Android, in particular. We see no other technology titan with comparable expertise across consumer hardware, software, services, and chip design. In turn, we believe this integration allows Apple to build premium devices that command industry-leading average selling prices and margins, most notably the firm\u2019s crown jewel: the iPhone.\nBrian Colello",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "AAPL Apple Inc Company Reports",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}