{
    "authors": [
        "Anshel Sag"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 12:06:37",
    "description": "Snap, Niantic and Valve are following different paths to commercializing XR and AR as they work to bring spatial computing to a broader base of consumers.",
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://imageio.forbes.com/specials-images/imageserve/674de642ba17d202dec396c6/0x0.jpg?format=jpg&height=900&width=1600&fit=bounds",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "Nobody is going to call the companies in this overview \u201csmall.\u201d Most of them have revenues in the billions of dollars, but they aren\u2019t public companies with trillion-dollar market caps like all the companies we covered in my State of XR Part 1 article, so they fall into second tier. These companies are still critical to the state of the industry, and many of them are pioneers in the XR space in one way or another. Let\u2019s take a deeper look at what Snap, Niantic, Magic Leap and Valve are doing in XR in 2024.\nSnap Shows Promise, But A Viable Consumer AR Headset May Be Years Away\nSnap is an interesting company because it originally had a solid path to market with its Spectacles smart glasses, even giving an early prototype to creators to make content on. Yet even though Snap subsequently acquired Wave Optics, it has yet to deliver a commercial product since it announced the Spectacles development glasses in 2021. The company was iterating regularly but then seemingly hit a brick wall with its AR glasses. It has laid off hundreds of workers in its augmented reality division and has struggled financially, forcing it to narrow its focus.\nStill, the company has some key successes: with over 850 million monthly active users, the Snapchat app has built a lot of brand awareness in the fashion space for try-ons, plus it has expanded Snap\u2019s partnerships beyond virtual clothes. Meanwhile, Snap\u2019s greatest commercial success in AR has been its AR lenses (3.5 million sold), which have gone as far as becoming part of Disney\u2019s PhotoPass service\u2014something I had a lot of fun using on my visit to Epcot last year.\nAt the company\u2019s Snap Partner Summit 2024, which I attended a couple of months ago, Snap unveiled its new second-generation Spectacles AR glasses, which improved upon the original design in nearly every way and introduced a new operating system. I recently wrote about this experience in detail; I found that Snap is applying its limited resources to make AR and AI work together to be more fun and engaging.\nWhile the Spectacles themselves are still not a consumer product, it is quite clear that the company is working diligently to get closer to a standalone AR future. That said, it will probably be years before we see a mainstream product emerge from these efforts. Still, the new Spectacles are the closest thing we have to a consumer standalone AR headset in the industry today, even if they are still only for developers.\nNiantic Is Ambitious, But The Market May Not Be Ready For It Yet\nLike many other companies in this space, Niantic had ambitious goals for AR and even worked with Qualcomm to build a reference AR headset specifically for use with its Lightship platform so it could show off its ability to support games, especially Pok\u00e9mon Go. In 2023, however, Niantic laid off hundreds of people\u2014after already laying off nearly a hundred a year earlier. It also canceled two of its newest games (tie-ins with the NBA and Marvel) and closed its Los Angeles studio. Lightship can offer a cross-platform environment for AR apps on smartphones and AR headsets, but it has struggled to see success beyond Pok\u00e9mon Go. (For anyone concerned that Pok\u00e9mon Go might be dated, it currently has more than 150 million monthly active users, and I have seen old men in Taiwan walking around with five phones just to play the game to its maximum potential.)\nI do believe that Niantic\u2019s VPS technology has some of the best potential for monetization in the AR space because it is both platform-agnostic and location-based. Niantic also expanded its offering in 2022 with the acquisition of 8th Wall, a web-based AR platform, boosting the potential user base that Niantic could address. At AWE 2024, the company introduced Niantic Studio to increase ease of use and access to its capabilities for developers.\nNiantic further demonstrated its platform-agnostic approach this year by launching the Hello Dot mixed-reality game on Quest 3 and VPS on Magic Leap, and by updating the MR skateboarding experience Skatrix Pro for the Apple Vision Pro headset to broaden the game to room-scale. Niantic has also partnered with Snap on the latest generation of Spectacles to enable its Peridot virtual pet, and to use Gaussian splats to create 3-D objects with a simple scan using technology from Scaniverse.\nI believe that Niantic is still onto something important with its location-based, world-scale AR focus and with its acquisitions of companies, including 8th Wall and Universe. In other words, I think it is headed in the right direction, even if the industry isn\u2019t quite ready for it. Yet it remains to be seen whether Niantic will continue down the AR road as a freestanding company or be acquired.\nThe Sad Tale Of Magic Leap\nMagic Leap had a platform and a headset for years. However, it struggled mightily to get its first headset out the door, incorrectly targeted consumers rather than commercial customers and eventually made a late pivot towards enterprise uses\u2014like many other companies in the XR space. The company even shipped a quite good second-generation headset that addressed many of the problems of the Magic Leap One, but it was still too expensive and required a wired tether and compute/battery puck.\nSince its founding, Magic Leap has burned through $3 billion and ended up in the hands of the Saudi sovereign wealth fund after its original investors wrote it off as a complete loss. Magic Leap also changed CEOs late last year, installing Ross Rosenberg, a former executive from Bain Capital. This made it clear that Magic Leap was up for sale; as of July 18, 2024, the company laid off its entire sales staff and its defense and public sector teams. Some of the people who were laid off also mentioned a shift away from hardware, which to me indicates an impending sale of IP and possibly the remaining talent in the company.\nMagic Leap\u2019s story is a sad one, mostly because there were many chances for the company to be successful, but it quickly transformed from an AR industry darling into a major warning sign. After the July layoffs, I wrote about Magic Leap\u2019s exit from the headset market here.\nValve Keeps Doing Things Its Own Way\nSome of you may have never heard of Valve, while others (like me) have known about it for over 20 years. The company started out as a developer for PC games and evolved into the world\u2019s first successful digital games marketplace. This marketplace, called Steam, generates more than $10 billion a year in revenue and has over 132 million monthly active users. To put it another way, if you want to launch a game successfully on the PC, Steam is usually your ticket to success. Steam has also set the standard for app-store economics with its 30% cut of developer revenues that is now so familiar from Apple, Google and others. That 30% share funds most of Valve\u2019s activities, including its many forays into hardware. Steam is the basis of the VR platform that Valve created in partnership with HTC in 2016, with SteamVR serving as the software component and HTC Vive bringing the physical headset, controllers and lighthouses. Eventually, Valve shipped its own product with headset and controllers\u2014the Valve Index\u2014which was targeted at the high end of the market.\nValve\u2019s current hardware ambitions appear to be focused mostly on the Steam Deck, a Linux-based gaming handheld designed to compete with the Nintendo Switch. The company released two versions of the Steam Deck in 2022 and 2023 before it refreshed the Index. It recently announced that it would be porting its SteamOS to third-party hardware such as ASUS\u2019s ROG Ally. This has taken the company away from focusing on its own VR efforts such as the Valve Index. Valve\u2019s corporate structure is very flat and virtually any employee can work on anything, which tends to cause projects to take longer to launch\u2014for example the company\u2019s first AAA VR game, Half-Life: Alyx.\nThe Valve Index VR headset is now five years old, and instead of delivering a new version of it, the company has decided to create a Steam Link app for the Meta Quest platform. This is, in some people\u2019s eyes, a brilliant move, considering the current install base for PC VR and how much of it is already represented by Meta Quest users.\nThe Steam Link app for Meta Quest enables a more robust VR experience with an even lower-latency connection to the PC and easier setup than Meta\u2019s own link app. As of the October 2024 Steam Hardware Survey, the Meta Quest 2 represents 35% of all VR headsets, and the Quest 3 is 18%, while the Valve Index represents 16%. If you add the complete lineup of Meta\u2019s Quest and Rift headsets, Meta\u2019s share of the entire PC VR market is more than 60%. Valve seems to be comfortable with SteamVR being the platform for headset vendors including PiMax, Varjo, Meta and Pico. Valve has also been stingy with VR AAA titles, delivering only Half-Life: Alyx and leaving the industry waiting for the next bestseller title. Valve still develops new games, just not many for VR.\nValve really does do things on its own schedule and scale, and I\u2019m fairly confident we\u2019ll see more Steam Deck refreshes before we get an update to the Index headset. That said, the Index controllers (codenamed \u201cKnuckles\u201d) are still the most innovative and easy-to-use controllers for VR applications on the PC. In my estimation, Valve will continue to take a conservative, slow and steady approach to VR since it never seems to be in any rush. Valve\u2019s Deckard headset has been rumored for years now and is expected to take a hybrid approach with both PC-streaming and standalone capabilities likely running off some version of SteamOS.\nNext Up: Headsets And More\nNow that we\u2019ve established the state of platforms, the next parts in the series will follow the headset makers and the technology providers that enable them. It is quite clear that the XR market is still very much in a state of flux, and we can expect some of the biggest players to make significant moves in the next few years. What is abundantly apparent is that mixed reality is now the standard for the industry, with AR still far away for consumers, even though it is very real for enterprise uses today.\nAs with many technology segments before them, spatial computing and XR will need to be successful and work out many of the kinks before they become consumer technologies. 2023 and 2024 have been challenging for a lot of companies in this space, but the industry continues to move forward and show resilience as its constituent companies work to bring spatial computing to everyone.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "The State Of XR In 2024, Part 2: Tier-Two XR Platform Players",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}