{
    "authors": [
        "Keithen Drury",
        "www.facebook.com"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-02 09:55:00",
    "description": null,
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://g.foolcdn.com/editorial/images/799085/image-of-stock-chart-going-up.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "The last month of 2024 has arrived, and 2025 is right around the corner. However, there are far too many good deals in the market to sit December out and wait for 2025.\nThree stocks that I've got my eye on to buy more of in December are ASML (ASML 3.62%), Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (TSM 5.28%), and Meta Platforms (META 3.22%). All three of these companies are set to be long-term beneficiaries of the artificial intelligence (AI) arms race and make for great investments right now.\nEach company has a lot going for it\nAll three of these companies can be seen as AI investments. ASML and Taiwan Semiconductor are both plays on the chip industry that supports AI, while Meta Platforms is an investment in the development of generative AI models and the application of that technology.\nASML makes lithography machines that are sold to big chip foundries like Taiwan Semiconductor. These machines lay the microscopic electrical traces on chips that are spaced as little as 3 nanometers apart. ASML has a technological monopoly in this space, as it's the only company in the world that makes the machines it does.\nIt is also unlikely to be disrupted as it would take years of development and billions of investment dollars to create a competitor. This positions ASML well for the long term since its machines will continue to be purchased as the number of chips we use grows and the technology progresses.\nTaiwan Semiconductor uses ASML's machines to fabricate chips for its huge client list. Customers like Nvidia and Apple don't have chip manufacturing capabilities. Instead, they farm that work out to a foundry like Taiwan Semiconductor, which takes a design and produces it for its clients.\nAlthough Taiwan Semiconductor can produce the most powerful chips available (3nm chips), it's working on 2nm chips as well. This continual improvement march nearly guarantees Taiwan Semiconductor's steady income growth, as the chip price rises with each new generation of technology.\nLastly is Meta Platforms, also known by its previous name, Facebook. While the majority of Meta's revenue is generated from ads on its social media platforms, it's also heavily invested in the generative AI game. Its model, Llama, is one of the leading open-source generative AI models, making it a top option for developers looking to know what is happening with their data, unlike some of the other well-known options.\nAdditionally, it helps Meta \"fine tune\" the model without needing to spend heavily on resources. If Meta wins the generative AI race and Llama becomes one of the industry standards, it can benefit Meta as it will now have access to the most well-trained AI model, improving experiences on its platform.\nWhile all three companies have solid stories to invest in, they also look like great bargains.\nAll three stocks are not overpriced\nASML recently became a bargain after its stock plummeted following Q3 earnings. That report contained a reduction in revenue guidance for 2025, mainly centered on falling China revenue. This is happening due to export bans on China for some of its most advanced machines and an economic downturn in China itself. After the fall, ASML now trades for 33 times forward earnings, about the same price it traded for last year.\nWith investors able to turn back the clock to get ASML's stock for cheaper, I think they should take every opportunity, as this giant won't stay beaten down forever.\nTaiwan Semiconductor's stock price has consistently risen throughout 2024 as investors are starting to realize how smart of an investment it is. As a result, it's no longer \"cheap,\" but I'd say it's fairly valued.\nAccording to Wall Street analysts, Taiwan Semiconductor's revenue is projected to grow by about 25% next year, and earnings per share (EPS) to rise by about 26%. That makes the current price tag a fair price for the stock, making it a good buy in December.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "3 No-Brainer Stocks to Buy in December",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}