{
    "authors": [
        "Jason Piccolo"
    ],
    "date_download": "None",
    "date_modify": "None",
    "date_publish": "2024-12-01 00:01:00",
    "description": null,
    "filename": ".json",
    "image_url": "https://media.townhall.com/cdn/hodl/2024/330/ebe6fddf-72f2-4973-9e8d-148169f788b6.jpg",
    "language": "en",
    "localpath": null,
    "maintext": "President Donald Trump's return to the White House would present a key opportunity to finally hold Big Tech accountable for its continued failure to protect children. With Elon Musk already demonstrating how tech leaders can prioritize accountability and transparency, the incoming administration would be positioned to transform how social media companies respond to child exploitation.\nAdvertisement\nWhile Musk has shown that tech giants can prioritize swift action against exploitation on X (formerly Twitter), other platforms continue to drag their feet. The crisis recently came into sharp focus when Meta faced a landmark lawsuit from 30 state attorneys general. The lawsuit exposed what law enforcement has long known: social media companies' delayed responses to evidence preservation requests are severely hampering child exploitation investigations. Backed by Musk's tech industry influence, Trump's incoming administration must be prepared to tackle this crisis head-on.\nThe statistics are stark. Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) conducted over 4,000 child exploitation investigations in 2023 alone. Behind these numbers lies a disturbing reality: while investigators wait for companies to preserve evidence, crucial digital trails disappear forever. Trump's administration, with Musk's proven expertise, must empower HSI to demand immediate compliance from these tech giants.\nConsider Snapchat's disappearing message feature, which has become a significant obstacle for investigators. The platform reported 400,000 CSAM incidents in a single quarter of 2023 through the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children's CyberTipline, yet their response times to law enforcement requests remain inadequate. Trump's Justice Department must be able to impose real consequences for such delays.\nRecent HSI operations have repeatedly demonstrated how corporate delays directly impact prosecution outcomes. When companies take days to respond to preservation requests, vital evidence often vanishes, making successful prosecution significantly more difficult. The incoming administration must empower federal agencies to demand immediate evidence preservation.\nTrump's previous signing of the EARN IT Act was an essential first step, but his incoming administration must implement stronger enforcement mechanisms. When Meta reports $34.15 billion in quarterly revenue, their claims about resource limitations ring hollow.\nThe solutions are clear. With Musk's tech industry leadership backing Trump's initiative, platforms would have no excuse to delay implementing proven protection technologies. Required immediate actions for the incoming administration include establishing mandatory 24/7 emergency response teams, implementing immediate evidence preservation protocols with severe penalties for delays, and empowering federal agencies to impose immediate sanctions for non-compliance.\nThis isn't about politics or profit margins \u2013 it's about protecting children from ongoing abuse. Every delayed response to law enforcement represents additional time a child remains at risk. The contrast between companies' swift response to copyright violations and their delayed reaction to NCMEC CyberTipline reports reveals a disturbing misalignment of priorities that the incoming administration must correct.\nAdvertisement\nTrump's proven ability to challenge Big Tech, combined with Musk's industry influence and the full power of the executive branch, could finally force these companies to implement proven protection technologies universally. His incoming administration must be prepared to use every available tool to ensure immediate compliance with law enforcement requests and mandatory implementation of protection technologies\nThe time for half-measures and corporate virtue signaling is over. Trump's administration must be empowered to take immediate action against platforms that fail to protect children. In the fight against child exploitation, delayed corporate responses aren't just an inconvenience \u2013 they're enabling continued abuse.\nOne potential barrier to this initiative is the ongoing political polarization in the United States. The Trump administration's previous confrontations with Big Tech companies were often framed through a partisan lens, which could make it challenging to secure bipartisan support for new measures. The issue of child exploitation rises above party lines, and the incoming administration could make a concerted effort to build a broad coalition of lawmakers and stakeholders who share the common goal of protecting vulnerable children.\nAnother important consideration is the potential legal and regulatory hurdles that the administration may face. Social media companies have historically invoked free speech protections and argued that content moderation policies should be left to their discretion. The incoming administration must carefully navigate these legal complexities to establish a robust and defensible framework for holding these companies accountable.\nAdvertisement\nDespite these challenges, the urgency of the situation demands immediate action. The continued abuse of children facilitated by social media platforms is a stain on the integrity of the tech industry and a moral imperative that the incoming administration cannot ignore. With the right strategy, leadership, and collaboration with key industry players like Musk, Trump's administration could finally turn the tide in the fight against online child exploitation.",
    "source_domain": null,
    "text": null,
    "title": "Trump Must Lead Big Tech Accountability in the Fight Against Child Exploitation",
    "title_page": null,
    "title_rss": null,
    "url": null
}